THIS IS
OFFICIALLY WELCOMING EVERYONE
TO THE THURSDAY, OCTOBER 10TH
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR MEETING
OF THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION IT IS SEVEN
01 ONE P.M. THIS MEETING IS
BEING HELD IN PERSON AND
ELECTRONICALLY.
WE ASSUME WE INTEND TO CONDUCT
THIS HYBRID MEETING SIMILAR TO
AN IN-PERSON MEETING.
>> HOWEVER, PLEASE BE PATIENT
IF THERE ARE TECHNICAL
DIFFICULTIES MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC WOULD LIKE TO COMMENT ON
HEARINGS OR OTHER MATTERS MAY
DO SO IN PERSON OR VIRTUALLY TO
SPEAK DURING ANY OF THE PUBLIC
COMMENT OPPORTUNITIES.
PLEASE CALL TWO ZERO SIX THREE
THREE SEVEN NINE SEVEN TWO
THREE OR TOLL FREE EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN ENTER MEETING ID
NINE SIX FIVE THREE SIX SIX
NINE NINE SEVEN SIX TWO.
THIS INFORMATION IS ALSO
AVAILABLE ON THE PUBLISHED
AGENDA IN THE PUBLIC NOTICES
SECTION OF THE CITY WEBSITE AND
ON THE BROADCAST OF THIS
MEETING ON CTM C10 CAN BE FOUND
ON XFINITY CHANNEL SIXTEEN AT&T
CHANNEL NINETY NINE STREAMING
ONLINE ON YOUTUBE OR AT EIGHT
TO GOV UGWU WATCH CTM MISS
THATCHER WILL YOU PLEASE CALL
THE ROLL ROCKLIN HERE ORDER
YOUR MR. ROSS PRESENT MR.
KAPLAN HERE MR. SMITH MR.
CALDERON HAVE A QUORUM REMEMBER
THAT YOU NEED THREE OR FOUR
VOTES TO PASS A MOTION.
>> THANK YOU.
OK THANK YOU MISS THATCHER ARE
THERE ANY CHANGES TO TONIGHT'S
AGENDA?
>> OK SEEING NONE AND WITHOUT
OBJECTION THE AGENDA IS
APPROVED AS PRESENTED AND NOW
WE'LL MOVE ON A PUBLIC COMMENT
HERE.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE
THAT IS NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC
HEARING ON THIS AGENDA TO
COMMENT ON SUCH OTHER
PRESERVATION MATTERS, PLEASE
APPROACH THE PODIUM NOW OR JOIN
THE MEETING USING THE
INFORMATION DISPLAYED ON THE
AGENDA AND THE VIDEO FEED
YOU'LL HIT STAR NINE TO RAISE
YOUR HAND IF YOU'RE ONLINE.
>> DO WE HAVE ANY VIRTUAL
PARTICIPANTS?
WE DO NOT.
OK VERY WELL.
I DON'T SEE ANYONE APPROACHING
THE PODIUM HERE SO WE WILL MOVE
ON FROM PUBLIC COMMENT TO
UNFINISHED BUSINESS AND I DO
NOT THINK THERE IS ANY
UNFINISHED BUSINESS SO WE'LL
MOVE RIGHT ON INTO HEARINGS AND
THE FIRST HEARING IS EF1 THREE
EAST LIBERTY STREET.
>> MISS THATCHER, WOULD YOU
PLEASE GIVE THE STAFF REPORT?
I WILL.
THANK YOU.
OK, SIX OR THREE EAST LIBERTY
STREET IS THE MICHIGAN THEATER
.
THE VENERABLE MICHIGAN THEATER
WAS BUILT IN NINETEEN TWENTY
SEVEN TO HOUSE SHOPS, OFFICES
AND A LAVISH THEATER.
>> THE AUDITORIUM FEATURED
BARTON ORGAN AND 1500 SEATS.
THERE WERE RENOVATIONS DONE IN
1986 AND IN 1998 A NEW MARQUEE
WAS ADDED TO THE FRONT OF THE
BUILDING.
I DIDN'T GET INTO THE WHOLE
HISTORY HERE.
IT'S IT'S INTERESTING AND LIKE
THE THIS APPLICATION IS TO
REPLACE THREE MESSAGE PANELS
OF THE MARQUEE SIGN WITH
DIGITAL PANELS THAT ARE THE
SAME SIZE.
SO THIS IS THE MARQUEE ON THE
FRONT AND IT HAS THREE PANELS
THAT SAY THINGS LIKE THANK YOU
VICTORY OUT OF GROUP
.
THE PROPOSAL IS TO REPLACE
THESE PANELS IN THE SAME SIZE
WITH DIGITAL PANELS.
IF YOU GO AND LOOK ONLINE FOR
THIS, IT'S HAPPENING ALL OVER
THE COUNTRY.
THERE ARE A LOT OF DIGITAL
SIGNS, VARYING RESOLUTION AND
VARYING TYPES OF THINGS THAT
ARE BEING ADVERTISED ON THEM.
BUT YOU FIND THEM A NEW
THEATER, YOU FIND THEM HISTORIC
THEATERS AND THEY WOULD LIKE TO
REPLACE ALL THREE OF THESE
PANELS WITH DIGITAL PANELS.
>> LET ME GET HERE'S LIKE
HERE'S A QUICK QUICK
RUN-THROUGH OF THE HISTORY
OF MICHIGAN THEATER MARQUEE AND
SIGN.
SO THIS IS BACK IN 1920 EIGHT
CERESSUS JACK OAKIE HERE.
>> THIS IS THE ONLY PICTURE
I'VE SEEN OF THE MICHIGAN
THEATER.
>> I DON'T KNOW IF YOU GUYS
HAVE SEEN OLDER BUT I LOVE THIS
.
>> YOU CAN SEE THOUGH THAT THE
MARQUEE IT'S HARD TO TELL IF
IT'S A SQUARE OR A TRAPEZOID.
>> IT'S GOT A MICHIGAN SIGN ON
THE TOP SIMILAR TO THE ONE
TODAY BUT IT DOESN'T HAVE STUFF
ON TOP OF THIS THAT'S VERY
VISIBLE IN THIS PICTURE AT
LEAST THEN IN NINETEEN FORTY
FOUR THIS PICTURE WAS TAKEN.
>> THIS IS THE NEXT GENERATION
OF MARQUEE SIGNS, MUCH MORE ART
DECO I THINK IN THE STAFF
REPORT I HAVE SOME MORE
CONCRETE DATES ON WHEN THESE
WERE ACTUALLY INSTALLED.
THIRD ITERATION REMODELED
EXTERIOR THIS WAS NINETEEN
FIFTY SIX YOU CAN SEE THAT ALL
THESE STOREFRONTS HAVE BEEN
REDONE ON THE MICHIGAN THEATER
BUILDING.
THEY HAVE THIS BIG METAL PANEL
WHERE THE SIGNAGE IS GOING NOW
AND THE OLD STOREFRONTS THAT
YOU SEE DOWN AND THE EARLIER
PICTURES WITH TRANSOMS AND A
MORE TRADITIONAL LOOKING
STOREFRONTS WERE REPLACED AT
THAT TIME AND WE'VE GOT THIS
TRIANGULAR MARQUEE OVER THE
ENTRANCE AND THEN WE COME TO
THE RESTORED IT'S NOT A REPLICA
BUT IT'S A A RESTORATION IN THE
IN THE SPIRIT OF THE ORIGINAL
MARQUEE THAT WE SAW BACK FROM
1927.
THIS PHOTO WAS TAKEN IN 2003.
>> I THOUGHT IT WAS A COOL
PHOTO SO I INCLUDED IT.
BUT YOU CAN SEE HOW THERE ARE
THERE'S THE EMBELLISHMENTS ARE
DIFFERENT ON TOP OF THE SIGN.
I DIDN'T I ALSO DIDN'T THINK
THAT IT WAS THE SAME DEPTH OUT
OVER THE SIDE WHERE SOME OF THE
EARLIER ONES I COULD BE WRONG
ABOUT THAT BUT THEY ALL SEEM TO
BE A LITTLE BIT DIFFERENT.
SO WHAT WE HAVE NOW IS NOT A
REPLICA OF AN EARLIER SIGN AND
THAT'S IMPORTANT TO KEEP IN
MIND.
IT'S VERY MUCH COMPATIBLE WITH
THE BUILDING IS VERY MUCH
COMPATIBLE WITH THIS SIGN WHICH
IS THIS ONE IS MUCH CLOSER TO A
REPLICA I BELIEVE.
>> BUT WE'RE NOT TALKING ABOUT
THAT ONE TODAY.
IT'S ALREADY THERE.
IT LOOKS GREAT.
THE THE APPLICANT INCLUDED SOME
INFORMATION ON SOME NEW COLORED
LIGHTS THAT ARE GOING TO BE
REPLACING TO TO JAZZ UP THE
MICHIGAN BLADE SIGN WHICH IS
COOL.
IT'S JUST COLORED BULBS SO KIND
OF OUT OF OUR PURVIEW THEY'RE
NOT MAKING ANY SUBSTANTIVE
CHANGES THERE BUT I THINK
THAT'LL BE A NICE CHANGE THEY
HAVE THE THREE PROPOSED READER
BOARDS THEY'RE CALLING THEM YOU
SEE HERE WE'VE GOT A LONG GONE
WITH THE WIND ACTION ON THE
SIDES.
YOU COULD MAKE THE FRONT LOOK
LIKE IT'S OLD LETTERS THAT YOU
CHANGE ON A LADDER OVER THE
BOWL.
>> THEY HAVE THE DIMENSIONS
OF THE SIGNS HERE THERE ARE
FORTY FOUR AND ABOUT FORTY AND
A HALF SQUARE FEET
.
UH, LET'S SEE THIS IS MORE
DIMENSIONALITY TO AGAIN GIVE
YOU AN IDEA OF JUST HOW MASSIVE
THIS SIGN IS AND HOW BIG THE
WHOLE SIGN STRUCTURE IS OVERALL
.
>> OOPS.
THIS IS A PHOTO FROM THE
MICHIGAN THEATER IN JACKSON
WHERE THEY HAVE INSTALLED
SIMILAR REIDER PANELS ON THEIR
MARQUEE TO GIVE YOU A BETTER
IDEA OF WHAT IT MIGHT LOOK LIKE
,I THINK THESE ARE A LITTLE
BIT SMALLER THAN OUR MICHIGAN
THEATER BUT SAME SORT OF IDEA
AND I DO HAVE A COUPLE
OF VIDEOS IF YOU WILL BEAR WITH
ME FOR A MOMENT.
I WILL SWITCH MY VIEW HERE TO A
COUPLE OF VIDEOS THAT THE
APPLICANT PROVIDED THIS ONE I
BELIEVE IS OF THE MICHIGAN
THEATER.
UH, AS YOUTH THEATER IN JACKSON
AND LET'S SEE HOW THIS LOOKS.
I'LL PLAY IT A COUPLE OF TIMES.
YEAH.
THERE'S THE MICHIGAN THEATER IN
JACKSON ALL LIT UP AND IT'S
GOING TO CHANGE IN A SECOND.
OH, THEY'RE CHANGED.
SO I'M GONNA PLAY IT AGAIN THAT
OBVIOUSLY IT'S DIGITAL.
YOU CAN CHANGE IT.
YOU CAN CHANGE IT CAN ADD ALL
THE TIME.
IT CAN BE I CAN ADD YEAH.
KEEP IN MIND THAT IT IS A SIGN
SO WE HAVE ABSOLUTELY NO
PURVIEW OVER WHAT IS ON THAT
SIDE CAN PUT PRETTY MUCH
ANYTHING THAT'S NOT INDECENT
AND THAT KIND OF LET'S SEE I'VE
GOT ONE OTHER ONE HERE TO SHOW
YOU COMING UP.
THIS ONE IS AT PLAYHOUSE SQUARE
OUTSIDE CLEVELAND.
>> YOU LIKE BROADWAY SHOWS AND
YOU'VE NEVER BEEN THERE.
IT'S A GREAT PLACE TO SEE THEM
.
YOU SHARE MY SCREEN
OK, ZOOM IN IN A SECOND.
THIS ONE'S GOT A LITTLE MORE
ACTION GOING ON.
IT'S GOT MORE THINGS BEING
CHANGED.
>> IT REALLY IS MORE LIKE AN AD
.
SO THE CITY'S SIGN ORDINANCE
HAS SOME STIPULATIONS IN IT
THAT THE PROPOSED SIGNS DON'T
COMPLY WITH THAT THEY WOULD
NEED A TRIP TO THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS FOR THINGS LIKE THE
SIZE OF THE ELECTRONIC MESSAGE
SIGN SIGN AND FOR STAFF
SERGEANT
OK, I'LL PUT A SIGN IN
FOR THINGS LIKE THE OUTDOOR
LIGHTING CODE SAYS THAT THE
SIGNS CAN'T BE LIT PAST A HALF
AN HOUR AFTER THE THE BUSINESS
CLOSES AND THAT CAN ONLY BE
TURNED OUT A HALF AN HOUR
BEFORE THE BUSINESS OPENS.
SO IF YOU WANTED TO HAVE THESE
ON ALL DAY IF THE MACHINE
THEATER WASN'T OPEN, YOU MIGHT
WANT TO ROLL THAT INTO ANY
VARIANCE REQUESTS BECAUSE
WOULDN'T DO YOU MUCH GOOD IF IT
WEREN'T TURNED ON ALL DAY
BECAUSE YOU WANT PEOPLE TO SEE
THAT OBVIOUSLY SECRETARY
OF INTERIOR STANDARDS THAT BEST
APPLY TO THIS ARE NO ONE WHICH
HAS A PROPERTY SHALL BE USED
FOR HISTORIC PURPOSE, ARE
PLACED IN A NEW USE THAT
REQUIRES MINIMAL CHANGE TO THE
DEFINING CHARACTERISTICS OF THE
BUILDING AND ITS ENVIRONMENT.
NO WHO SAYS THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF A PROPERTY SHOULD
BE RETAINED TO PRESERVE THE
REMOVAL OF HISTORIC MATERIALS
OR ALTERATION OF FEATURES IN
SPACES THAT CHARACTERIZE A
PROPERTY SHALL BE AVOIDED?
NUMBER FIVE SAYS DISTINCTIVE
FEATURES FINISHES IN
CONSTRUCTION TECHNIQUES OR
EXAMPLES CRAFTSMANSHIP THE
CHARACTER AS A PROPERTY SHALL
BE PRESERVED NINE SAYS NEW
ADDITIONS, EXTERIOR ALTERATIONS
OR RELATED NEW CONSTRUCTION
SHALL NOT DESTROY HISTORIC
MATERIALS OR SHALL BE
DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE OLD AND
SHALL BE COMPATIBLE WITH THE
HISTORIC INTEGRITY OF THE
PROPERTY AND ITS ENVIRONMENT.
>> NO.10 SAYS NEW ADDITIONS AND
JASON RELATED NEW CONSTRUCTION
SHALL BE UNDERTAKEN IN SUCH A
MANNER THAT IF REMOVED IN THE
FUTURE THE ESSENTIAL FORM AND
INTEGRITY OF THIS PROPERTY AND
ITS ENVIRONMENT WOULD BE
UNIMPAIRED FROM THE GUIDELINES
FOR STOREFRONTS IT'S
RECOMMENDED TO IDENTIFY, RETAIN
AND PRESERVE STOREFRONTS
FUNCTIONAL AND DECORATIVE
FEATURES THAT ARE IMPORTANT IN
FINDING THE OVERALL HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE BUILDING.
OBVIOUSLY THE KEY TO THE
MICHIGAN THEATER IS ONE OF THE
MOST CHARACTER DEFINING SITES
THAT YOU'LL FIND IN DOWNTOWN
ANN ARBOR AND LET'S SEE NOT
RECOMMENDED IS INTRODUCING A
NEW DESIGN THAT'S INCOMPATIBLE
ENTIES MATERIAL OR COLOR OR
INAPPROPRIATELY SCALED FROM THE
ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR SIGNS
IT'S APPROPRIATE TO INSTALL
SIGNAGE THAT IS SUBORDINATE TO
THE OVERALL BUILDING
COMPOSITION.
FORTUNATELY I BELIEVE THAT WITH
A STATE WITH A SIGNED THIS BIG
AND THIS AMAZING GORGEOUS
GORGEOUS STOREFRONT AND FRONT
FACADE, THE SIGNAGE IS STILL
SUBORDINATE WHEN YOU JUST LOOK
AT THESE THREE PANELS COMPARED
EVERYTHING THAT'S GOING OUT ON
THE FRONT OF THIS BUILDING,
IT'S NOT APPROPRIATE TO INSTALL
SIGNS THAT ARE OVERLY COMPLEX,
USE MORE THAN THREE OR FOUR
COLORS OR USE FLUORESCENT
COLORS.
>> WHAT DOES THAT MEAN
FLUORESCENT COLORS,
FLUORESCENT?
>> YEAH, THERE WAS A PROBLEM
WITH FLUORESCENT PAINT ONCE
UPON A TIME LIKE NEON I DON'T
KNOW FLUORESCENT COLORS BUT
YEAH YEAH LIKE IS THE SAME AS
ME I'M KIND OF NOT LIKE NEON
LIGHTING LIKE YEAH YEAH NO ONE
FOR ME LET'S SEE OK I'M GOING
TO GO BACK UP HERE TO OUR PHOTO
I SEE LIKE ON THIS PINK POP
SIDE THOSE WERE PRETTY CLOSE TO
FLUORESCENT BUT FORTUNATELY ARE
NO LONGER THERE SO IT WASN'T AN
ISSUE BUT THAT WHOLE SIGN HAD
BEEN NEON PINK OR FLUORESCENT
PINK.
>> IT MIGHT HAVE BEEN A PROBLEM
.
I LEFT MY STAFF FINDINGS PRETTY
WIDE OPEN ON THIS ONE.
BUT THE MORE WE STOOD
UNDERNEATH IT AND I LOOKED
AROUND AT OTHER INSTALLATIONS
SIMILAR TO THIS I WAS IN
DOWNTOWN DETROIT AT THE FOX ON
FRIDAY NIGHT AND THEY HAVE THE
SAME SORTS OF OF OF VIDEO
BOARDS ON TWO SIDES OF THEIR
THREE SIDED MARQUEE AND IT SORT
OF ADDS TO THE CHAOS OF THE
GIANT FOX THEATER.
BUT IT WAS COOL TO OK, HERE ARE
MY QUICK POINTS TO CONSIDER.
LET'S SEE THE CURRENT WHITE
ON
BLACK LETTERS THAT YOU SEE IN
THIS PICTURE ARE DIFFERENT FROM
THE PREDECESSORS WHICH HAD DARK
LETTERS ON A WHITE BACKGROUND.
>> THE SIGN AGAIN IS NOT A
REPLICA OF ANYTHING HISTORIC.
>> IT'S JUST COMPATIBLE STEPS.
BIGGEST CONCERN IS WHETHER WHAT
IS DISPLAYED IS FIXED IN PLACE
OR ANIMATED.
I SHOWED YOU THAT ONE IN
PLAYHOUSE SQUARE THAT WAS
MOVING A LOT AND HAD SPINNING
FEATURES THAT'S NOT ALLOWED BY
THE SIGN ORDINANCE IN ANN ARBOR
ANYWAY.
DESPITE THAT STAFF HAS HAS
SUGGESTED A MOTION THAT
INCLUDES THAT AS A CONDITION
THAT THE I SAID THE IMAGES WERE
SHOWN ON THE SIDE MAY NOT
CHANGE MORE THAN ONCE AN HOUR
IF THE APPLICANTS HAVE ANY
ISSUES WITH THAT, YOU KNOW THEY
CAN TELL US ABOUT IT WHEN IT'S
THEIR TURN TO COME UP.
BUT I DON'T WANT THEM TO STOP
STOP THEM FROM CHANGING WHAT'S
GOING ON UP THERE.
BUT I I, I DON'T THINK IT'S
APPROPRIATE TO HAVE MESSAGES
CHANGING AS AN ADVERTISING
SCHEME FOR PEDESTRIANS.
SO YOU'RE GOT A PEDESTRIAN
WALKING DOWN THE BLOCK.
THEY SHOULDN'T BE INUNDATED
WITH FIVE DIFFERENT MESSAGES AS
THEY WALK TOWARD THE MICHIGAN
THEATER.
I DON'T THINK THAT THAT'S
APPROPRIATE FOR THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT.
I DON'T THINK THAT'S IN KEEPING
WITH OUR SIGNED CODE EITHER.
>> THIS WORK IS REALLY
REVERSIBLE.
YOU CAN TAKE THE ELECTRONIC
PANELS OFF.
>> YOU CAN PUT SOMETHING LIKE
WHAT'S THERE BACK ON THERE IS
NO HARM TO ANY HISTORIC
MATERIALS ON THE BUILDING AND
THAT'S ITS STAFF DOES RECOMMEND
APPROVAL OF THE PROPOSAL.
>> THANK YOU
.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
WE'LL NOW MOVE ON TO THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT.
>> I WAS ON THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE AS WAS COMMISSIONER
SMITH.
COMMISSIONER SMITH ISN'T HERE
THIS EVENING SO I WILL JUST
GIVE THE REPORT.
>> YEAH, I DON'T REALLY HAVE
ANYTHING TO ADD JUST TO
REITERATE THAT IT'S IT'S
OBVIOUSLY LIKE THIS THE ONE
OF THE MOST ICONIC BUILDINGS IN
ANN ARBOR.
SO I MEAN I GUESS THAT JUST
MEANS YOU GUYS EVERYONE KIND
OF KNOWS WHAT WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT HERE, WHAT WE'RE DEALING
WITH JUST TO ALSO REITERATE THE
THE EXISTING DESIGN IS MASSIVE
COMPARED TO ANY OTHER DESIGN
EXCEPT FOR THE STATE THEATER
THAT IS RIGHT DOWN THE STREET.
SO IT'S ALREADY A MASSIVE SIGN
THERE ARE WE ARE THERE IN THE
DAYTIME BUT YOU KNOW, YOU'VE
SEEN IT AT NIGHT.
THERE'S A LOT OF LIGHTS ALREADY
.
>> YOU KNOW, WE'RE LOOKING AT
IT AND THE BLACK WITH THE WHITE
LETTERING IS SO ICONIC IT JUST
IS LIKE FREE ADVERTISEMENT THAT
SAYS THIS IS A MOVIE THEATER
KIND OF THING.
YOU KNOW, LIKE YOU KNOW EXACTLY
WHAT YOU'RE LOOKING AT.
IT JUST SEEMS PERFECT THE WAY
IT IS.
SO IT JUST IS I DON'T KNOW,
SURPRISING THAT I DON'T KNOW
SURPRISING IS THE RIGHT WORD
BUT I JUST WANT TO HEAR WHY
THEY WANT TO CHANGE IT AND AND
WHY WOULD YOU GO AWAY FROM
SOMETHING THAT'S JUST SO
OBVIOUSLY THEATER.
>> SO THAT'S THAT'S THE REPORT
NOW WE'LL MOVE ON TO APPLICANT
COMMENTS.
>> SO IS THE APPLICANT HERE
GREAT.
YEAH.
PLEASE APPROACH THE PODIUM.
>> CAN YOU PROVIDE YOUR NAME
AND ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD AND
THEN YOU'VE GOT FIVE MINUTES TO
SPEAK AND JUST PLEASE YOU'VE
HEARD COMMENTS SO THIS IS YOUR
TIME TO TO TALK OF TWENTY SIX
OH SIX PAMELA HERE TO ANN ARBOR
AND I WANT DID THE STATE
THEATER EIGHT AND A HALF YEARS
AGO AND WE DID TEN OTHER
THEATERS THROUGHOUT THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN.
WHAT WE'RE TRYING TO ACCOMPLISH
HERE BESIDES THIS THERE'S I
BROUGHT SOME COPIES I DON'T
KNOW IF YOU WANT TO SEE THE
WHOLE BIG PICTURE OF WHAT WE'RE
TRYING TO CREATE IN A CORRIDOR
ON LIBERTY STREET.
>> IS IT RELEVANT TO THE
PROPOSAL OR IS IT IT'S A BIG
PICTURE OF IT SAYS MOST OF THE
WORK THAT HE'S TALKING ABOUT IS
NOT IN THE HISTORIC DISTRICT,
OK OR I DON'T WANT IT'S THE BIG
IT DEPICTION OF THE BIG PICTURE
OF WHAT IT'S GOING TO LOOK LIKE
WITH NEW PINBALL BEADS.
WE'RE GOING TO CHANGE TO ADD A
NEW SIDE NECTARINE AND
HOPEFULLY LIGHT STEAKHOUSE.
SO THIS ALL COMES INTO PLAY AS
A CREATING A REAL, YOU KNOW,
ENTERTAINMENT CORRIDOR AND YOU
KNOW, THE THESE BOARDS WILL BE
ADJUSTED DEMMING WISE THERE'S A
WAY I THINK IT'S FORTY MINUTES
AND WILL COMPLY WITH THE
ORDINANCE FOR THE TIME IT CAN
BE ON OR OFF AND THERE'S NO
FLASHING NO CHASING ANY OF THAT
.
SO IT HAS TO BE STATIC FOR X
AMOUNT OF TIME THAT THEY CAN
CHANGE IT.
BUT THE MOST IMPORTANT THING
THE FRONT OF IT LIKE YOU'RE
SAYING THIS BOARD IS GOING TO
LOOK JUST LIKE THAT.
WE'RE GOING TO PHOTOSHOP THAT
SO THEY CAN CHANGE A COPY SO
THE FRONT WILL REMAIN THE SAME
.
THE TWO SIDES WILL BE
CHANGEABLE IN SORRY THE FRONT
THE SCREEN THAT LOOKS LIKE THAT
OR THE FRONT OK, GOT IT.
>> GOING TO LOOK JUST LIKE
IT'LL JUST BE MORE STATIONARY
THAN THE SIDES.
>> YES.
WELL I MEAN YOU WILL CHANGE
WHEN THEY CHANGE A MOVIE WILL
CHANGE THAT.
>> LOOK EXACTLY HOW IT IS
RIGHT.
GOT IT.
YOU KNOW IT'LL LOOK GREAT.
ONE OF THE OTHER ITEMS TOO IS
INTRODUCING SOME BULBS THAT
JILL HAD BROUGHT WERE CHANGING
THE TOP.
WE CHANGED THE BOTTOM.
IT'S TOO WHITE.
IT'S TOO BRIGHT.
SO WE'RE MANIPULATING BY
CHANGING THE PUTTING COLORED
BULBS ON IT MORE LIKE IT IS NOW
THAT WE JUST CHANGE.
>> A COUPLE OF WEEKS AGO.
THE OTHER ISSUE IS THIS
CHANGING THESE LETTERS ARE
PLASTIC LETTERS.
THERE ARE NONEXISTENT.
THEY USED TO BE SOMETHING LIKE
THE STATE THEATER AND THERE'S
BIG SAFETY FACTOR OF THESE YOU
KNOW, SOME OF THE EMPLOYEES
OF THIS OF THE MICHIGAN THEATER
OUT THERE IN THE WINTERTIME,
YOU KNOW, 14 FOOT STEPLADDER
IT'S VERY DANGEROUS.
SO AND THEY HAVE SOMEBODY
CHANGE THE LETTERS AT THE
MICHIGAN THEATER BECAUSE THE
STATE THEATER BECAUSE OF THE
SAVERYS IT SO WHAT WE'RE TRYING
TO DO IS THIS IS PART OF THE AS
I MENTIONED THE BIG PICTURE
OVER THE WHOLE THAT WHOLE
CORRIDOR.
SO BRINGING PEOPLE DOWN THERE
AND YOU KNOW, THIS THEATER
REALLY NEEDS HELP AND SO
THERE'S A STATE BECAUSE
OF COVID YOU KNOW, A LOT
OF PEOPLE ARE NOT COMING BACK
HERE.
SO WE YOU KNOW, MY GOAL IS TO
BRING EVERYBODY DOWN ON LIBERTY
STREET AND SO TO MAKE IT
REJUVENATED AGAIN GO TO THE OLD
BEAUTIFUL THEATER.
IT'S A LOT OF FUN.
SO BUT I LIKE TO GIVE YOU THESE
SO YOU CAN JUST LOOK AT THEM,
YOU KNOW, NOT PART OF THIS
MEETING.
YOU WANT TO TAKE PICTURES.
THANK YOU
.
SURE YOU ARE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WELL, WHILE MARK'S PASSING
THOSE UP, DOES ANYONE HAVE ANY
QUESTION FOR THE APPLICANT
HERE?
I HAVE A QUICK QUESTION AND
MAYBE THIS IS MORE SO TO MISS
THATCHER.
SO THE SPECIFIC SCOPE ITEM
AROUND THAT FRONT SIGN BEING
PRETTY LIKE BEING STATIC IS
THAT ACTUALLY IN THE IN THE
APPLICATION LIKE SPECIFICALLY
CALLED OUT?
IT IS NOT BUT IT IS NOW ON THE
PUBLIC RECORD.
OK, AND YOU CAN ADD IT TO THE
NOTION LIKE OK THANK YOU.
YES IT WOULD BE STATIC, THEY
WOULD JUST CHANGE WHEN THEY
HAVE MOVIES SO THAT WON'T THAT
I SAY WHAT WOULD YOU CHANGE THE
WAY WE DO?
IT'S BASICALLY NIGHTLY SO I
WOULDN'T BE DEDICATED FOR IT
BUT TOWARDS ADVERTISING IT
WOULD JUST BE FOR YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS.
THE RECORD.
MY PLEASURE STEVE.
ALL THAT I WAS OUT AT NINE
TWENTY SEVEN WESTWOOD AVENUE
HERE IN ANN ARBOR AND I WORK AT
THE MICHIGAN THEATER.
I'M THE DIRECTOR OF FACILITIES
AND OPERATIONS SO WE CHANGE IT
SOMETIMES MULTIPLE TIMES DAILY
WHEN WE HAVE THE ANN ARBOR FILM
FESTIVAL.
WELL I WAS TRYING TO PUT IT UP
BUT YOU KNOW SO IT'S THE STAFF
TRAINING IT TAKES TO PEOPLE ON
THE LADDER BECAUSE THEY HAVE
SOMEBODY CHANGING AND WHATEVER
AND THEN WHEN YOU HAVE BAD
WEATHER, ONE OF THE OTHER
THINGS THAT'S A REAL ISSUE FOR
US IS WE CAN'T PROCURE THOSE
BATTERIES ANYMORE.
THEY JUST DON'T MAKE THEM.
AND IF YOU LOOKED AT IT I DON'T
KNOW HOW CLOSELY YOU'RE
LOOKING.
A LOT OF THEM ARE BEAT UP AND
THERE'S SPACES ON IT AND IT
LOOKS WHEN YOU DO LOOK AT IT AT
NIGHT YOU SEE THE LIGHT THAT
SHINING THROUGH IT'S NOT THAT
BEAUTIFUL BLACK WHICH MARK CAN
FIX.
>> SO IT WOULDN'T BE LIKE A
CONSTANTLY CHANGING BUT WHEN WE
HAVE LIKE AN OVER FILM FESTIVAL
THERE'S GOING TO BE EIGHT FILMS
GOING ON WE CAN JUST TYPE IT IN
AND HAVE IT GO UP INSTEAD
OF SENDING PEOPLE REPEATEDLY
DOING ALL THOSE THINGS, YOU
KNOW, BUT WE DO CHANGE IT
GENERALLY EVERY DAY THERE IS A
CHANGE FOR IT AND SOMETIMES
IT'S ALL THREE SIDES.
SOMETIMES IT'S ONE SIDE THE
STATE WE ONLY DO ONCE EVERY TWO
WEEKS RIGHT NOW BECAUSE THEY
ARE THOSE HEAVY METAL LETTERS
THAT GO UP THERE AND THAT DOES
STAY STATIC FOR ABOUT TWO WEEKS
WE SAW LIKE AN AD FOR A CREDIT
UNION.
I'M ONE OF THE VIDEOS IS THIS A
REVENUE GENERATING OPPORTUNITY
FOR YOU GUYS?
>> ARE YOU GOING TO BE SELLING
ADS ON THOSE SIDEBOARDS?
I'M NOT SURE WHAT YOU HAVE
RIGHT NOW.
WHAT WE DO IS OCCASIONALLY WE
WILL DO SOMEBODY YOU KNOW.
DO YOU KNOW DAVID, WILL YOU
MARRY ME?
I MEAN THERE WILL BE THINGS
LIKE THAT THAT WE'LL PUT UP BUT
YEAH.
SO IT DOES CHARGE FOR THAT
HAPPEN OFTEN THERE ARE THINGS
LIKE THAT THAT I'M NOT TALKING
ABOUT THAT AND TALKING ABOUT
MORE OF AN OPERATIONAL THING
WHERE YOU'RE NOT IN MARKETING
AND THAT'S MY OK TURN OFF MY
DRIVING THING FOR ME IT'S
GETTING TO LOOK BETTER AND IT'S
ALSO WE DO THANK OUR SPONSORS A
LOT SO THAT IS REVENUE
GENERATING I MEAN WOULD
PROBABLY BE EASIER FOR US TO BE
ABLE TO THANK OUR SPONSORS TO
HAVE THAT ROTATE.
BUT I DON'T
I DON'T KNOW THAT
OUR MAIN GOAL IS TO START
THROWING UP LIKE THAT WAS WE
HAVE THAT WE SAW PLAYHOUSE
SQUARE OR THE BANK OR WHATEVER
THAT WAS.
>> WHY DID YOU CHOOSE THE
MICHIGAN THEATER OR NOT THE
STATE THEATER TO PUT THESE
SCREENS AND THEATER IS AN
ORIGINAL GOING BACK TO LIKE
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT'S BEEN
CHANGED MULTIPLE TIMES ALREADY
AND THIS WOULD BE AND I DON'T
THINK THERE'S ANY WAY THAT'S
EVER GETTING PAST THE SORT BUT
YEAH, IT'S AN ICON.
THERE YOU GO.
AND THIS IS SOMETHING THAT HAS
BEEN CHANGED REPEATEDLY.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR MARK OR
STEVE?
>> OK, IT DOESN'T LOOK LIKE IT.
TAKE A SEAT.
WE I CALL YOU BACK UP IN A BUT
FOR NOW THANK YOU BOTH.
I DON'T KNOW THE PEOPLE ARE
LINING UP FOR THIS BUT THE
PUBLIC HEARING IS NOW OPEN FOR
ITS APPLICATION.
THIS IS SIX OH THREE EAST
LIBERTY STREET.
>> SO PUBLIC COMMENT MAY BE
MADE IN PERSON OR BY JOINING
THE MEETING USING THE
INFORMATION ON THE AGENDA.
>> I DON'T SEE ANYONE
APPROACHING THE PODIUM HERE.
DO WE HAVE ANYONE VIRTUALLY
DOESN'T LOOK LIKE IT.
>> OK, SO THEN WE'LL CLOSE THE
PUBLIC HEARING PORTION FOR THIS
ITEM AND WE'LL ASK IF ANY
COMMISSIONER WOULD LIKE TO MAKE
A MOTION ANYONE CAN DO IT.
YOU CAN DO IT.
OK, THANK YOU.
YEAH I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR 603 EAST
LIBERTY STREET, A CONTRIBUTING
STRUCTURE IN THE STATE STREET
HISTORIC DISTRICT.
DO WE PLACE THREE CHANGEABLE
MESSAGE SIDE PANELS ON THE
MICHIGAN THEATER MARQUEE TO
ELECTRONIC MESSAGE SIGNS ON THE
CONDITION THAT THE IMAGES OR
WORDS SHOWN ON THE SIGN MAY NOT
CHANGE MORE THAN ONCE PER HOUR
AND THE IMAGES OR WORDS MAY NOT
MOVE OR VANIMO AS CONDITIONED
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE AND
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL AND
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR STOREFRONTS AND
SIGNS AND THE SECRETARY OF THE
INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS ONE, TWO, FIVE, NINE
AND TEN AND THE GUIDELINES FOR
STOREFRONTS.
>> SECOND, THANK YOU FOR THAT
THAT WAS MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
FORTNER AND SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER KAPLIN.
SO NOW I'M WONDERING IF THERE'S
ANY DISCUSSION ON THE MOTION
MISS THATCHER THINKING ABOUT
THIS FURTHER?
YEAH, I DON'T THINK YOU COULD
CONDITION THAT MOTION BASED ON
THE BLACK AND WHITE CONTENT
OF THE SITE BECAUSE THE SIGN IS
A SIGN YOU CAN'T REGULATE THE
CONTENT SO ALONG THOSE LINES I
HAVE A QUESTION ABOUT THIS
ORDINANCE ABOUT THE HOURS
OF OPERATION.
SO BEFORE THE THEATER OPENS,
ARE THEY JUST GOING TO BE BLANK
UNDER THE CURRENT ORDINANCE?
YES.
SO THIS IS THEY HAVE TO BE
GIVEN THE BLANK LIGHT SAYING
WHAT'S SHOWING AGAIN BECAUSE
THAT'S AN ELECTRONIC SIGN
THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE TO GO TO
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
ANYWAY AND THEY'LL NEED TO ASK
FOR EXTENDED HOURS AT THAT TIME
THEY'LL ASK FOR A VARIANCE SO
THAT THE IDEA BEHIND THE
ORDINANCE WOULD REQUIRE THOSE
THREE PANELS TO BE BLIND OR
TURNED OFF NO POWER.
YEAH, YEAH.
VERY GOOD.
SO BUT AS WE READ THEM THE
MOTION AS READ IS ALLOWABLE.
>> RIGHT OK VERY GOOD.
>> SO ANY OTHER DISCUSSION
COMMISSIONER ROSS ANYTHING I
MEAN MY THOUGHTS ON THIS ARE
SINCE IT'S NOT A HISTORIC SIGN
THEN IT'S MORE ABOUT
NEIGHBORHOOD SETTING RIGHT.
>> IT'S LIKE I FEEL THIS IS
REVERSIBLE.
WE'RE NOT REMOVING ANYTHING
HISTORIC SO THAT SEEMS ALL GOOD
AND THEN IT'S JUST A QUESTION
OF HOW THIS IMPACTS THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT.
I DON'T KNOW IF ANY OF THOSE
THEATERS THAT WE SAW WERE IN A
HISTORIC DISTRICT.
I MEAN YOU CAN IMAGINE THEM IN
ONE BUT ONE YOU KNOW, AND THEN
SO I MEAN THE FOX HISTORIC
OBVIOUSLY MAYBE SOME OF THOSE
OTHER WELL THE JACKSON ONE TOO
ANYWAY.
I GUESS I'M GETTING TO THE
POINT OF WELL LET'S THINK ABOUT
WHERE IT IS AND IT'S IT'S GOING
TO BE SURROUNDED BY VERY LARGE
BRIGHT SIGN AND THE STATE
THEATER WHICH IS ALSO VERY
BRIGHT IS HALF A BLOCK AWAY AND
IT SOUNDS LIKE THE NON HISTORIC
DISTRICT PROPERTIES ARE GOING
TO BE A LOT MORE VIBRANT SOON
AND POSSIBLY BRIGHTER.
SO I GUESS ALL OF THAT IS IS IS
EASING MY CONCERN ABOUT
IMPACTING THE NEIGHBORHOOD
SETTING LIKE IF I'M JUST
IMAGINING THE MICHIGAN THEATER
ON ITS OWN, IT'S A DARK STREET
AND THEN WE HAVE VIDEO BOARDS
THAT SEEMS LIKE IT WOULD
NEGATIVELY IMPACT THE
NEIGHBORHOOD SO I'M SORT OF ON
THE FENCE ON THAT BUT LEANING
MORE TOWARDS IS THIS
APPROPRIATE IN A HISTORIC
DISTRICT?
WELL, MAYBE BUT IN THIS
HISTORIC DISTRICT IN THIS
LOCATION IT DOES SEEM THAT IT
WOULD BE APPROPRIATE.
I AGREE TO THE LARGELY
COMMERCIAL SETTING.
THIS WAS LIKE YOU KNOW,
SOMEBODY LIKE IN A RESIDENTIAL
SETTING WANTED INSTALLMENT
SCREENS.
I MEAN I GUESS THE ONLY WAY I
WORRY I HAVE IS LIKE OK, IF WE
APPROVE THIS, ARE THERE GOING
TO BE A BUNCH OF OTHER
BUSINESSES THAT WANT THIS
BECAUSE IT IS A REVENUE
GENERATING SITUATION BUT I
GUESS WE CAN'T REALLY THINK IN
THAT MANNER.
WE'RE LOOKING THE SITUATION ON
ITS OWN AS IT STANDS.
SO I MEAN IN THAT REGARD I
THINK YEAH, I'M NOT TOO OK FAIR
ENOUGH.
THANKS FOR THOSE COMMENTS.
>> LOOKS LIKE WE'RE READY FOR A
VOTE SO ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
OF THE MOTION PLEASE SAY YES.
>> YES YES.
>> ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY
NO.
ALL RIGHT.
THE MOTION CARRIES THE MOTION
CARRIES YOUR APPLICATION HAS
BEEN APPROVED.
YEAH, OK.
SO NOW WE'LL MOVE ON TO THE
NEXT HEARING.
THAT'S F2 AND IT'S FIVE FORTY
FOUR THIRD STREET MARIJANA THE
STAFF REPORT PLEASE.
THANK YOU
TONIGHT.
THANK YOU.
THANKS A LOT.
CAN
OK SO WE ARE ON FIVE FORTY
FOUR THIRD STREET THIS IS A ONE
AND THREE STORY VERNACULAR
CABLE FRONTYARD AND IT DOES
HAVE A FEW OF ITS ORIGINAL
WINDOWS BUT THE HOUSE ITSELF
HAS CHANGED SIGNIFICANTLY OVER
TIME ON THE NINETEEN TWENTY
FIVE SANDBORN MAP THE HOUSE HAD
A ONE STORY EDITION ON THE BACK
BUT THAT WAS GONE BY NINETEEN
THIRTY ONE ALSO BETWEEN
NINETEEN TWENTY FIVE AND
NINETEEN THIRTY ONE AND IRON
GARAGE WAS BUILT IN THE
BACKYARD AND THEN MORE RECENTLY
ACCORDING TO BUILDING PERMITS
IN NINETEEN SEVENTY NINE A TWO
STORY ADDITION ON THE NORTH
SIDE AND A REAR PORCH WERE
CONSTRUCTED SO THIS IS THE
NORTH SIDE AND THEN THE REAR
PORCH AT THE BACK AND THEN
THERE WAS ALSO ANOTHER ONE
STORY REAR EDITION CONSTRUCTED
SOMETIME AFTER NINETEEN SEVENTY
ONE IN IN OCTOBER OF TWENTY
FOURTEEN THE HGC DID APPROVE AN
APPLICATION TO REBUILD THE REAR
PORCH SLASH MUDROOM THE SITE IS
LOCATED ON THE WEST SIDE
OF THIRD STREET BETWEEN WEST
JEFFERSON AND WEST ADDISON
STREET AND THE APPLICANT SEEKS
FDA APPROVAL TO PLACE ELEVEN
NON HISTORIC WINDOWS AND A NON
HISTORIC SLIDING GLASS DOOR ON
THE POST NINETEEN FORTY FIVE
ADDITIONS TO THE HOUSE SO WE
ARE TALKING ABOUT WINDOW
REPLACEMENT.
THESE ARE ALL NON HISTORIC
WINDOWS AND THEY ARE ALL ON NON
HISTORIC PARTS OF THE I'M JUST
GOING TO KIND OF WALK THROUGH
SO IT'S IT'S ELEVEN WINDOWS
THERE POINTED OUT ON THE
DRAWINGS THAT WE'LL GET TO IN A
MOMENT BUT THIS IS JUST KIND
OF AN OVERVIEW SO THAT YOU CAN
SEE THE DIFFERENT SIDES OF THE
HOUSE THIS THIS HERE WHAT WE'RE
LOOKING AT IS THE REAR EDITION
THAT WAS BUILT AFTER NINETEEN
SEVENTY ONE AND THEN THIS HERE
IS THE SLIDING GLASS DOOR REAR
DOOR ALSO PART OF THE ADDITION
NORTH SIDE THIS WAS THE
NINETEEN SEVENTY NINE EDITION
AND THEN LOOKING AT THE
ELEVATIONS OF THE HOUSE YOU CAN
SEE THE WINDOWS THAT ARE
PROPOSED TO BE CHANGED ARE THE
ONES THAT HAVE THE LETTERS ON
THEM CAN NON HISTORIC PART
OF THE HOUSE NOT START PART
OF THE HOUSE?
SO THESE ARE FRONT FACING THIS
SIDE OF THE HOUSE IS FARTHER
BACK FROM THE STREET.
THERE ARE ALSO THREE WINDOWS
THAT ARE SUPPOSED TO BE WIDENED
AND YOU CAN SEE THEM ON THE
DRAWING STARTING WITH THIS ONE
ON THE SECOND STORY AND THESE
TWO ON THE REAR PART OF THE
HOUSE.
THESE TWO ALSO PROPOSED TO BE
WIDENED ON THE REAR OF THE
HOUSE AND THEN YOU SEE THESE
OTHER THIS IS THE SLIDING GLASS
DOOR AND THAT INCLUDED ARE THE
DRAWINGS ARE DIMENSION'S AND
SOME TRIM INFORMATION AND
JUST
GOING THROUGH AGAIN CLARIFYING
WHICH WINDOWS ARE GOING TO BE
REPLACED
AND THEN TWO THOUSAND
EIGHT PHOTO.
SO I BELIEVE JILL ALREADY READ
THROUGH THE SECRETARY OF THE
INTERIOR STANDARD SO I'LL SKIP
THOSE AND THEN JUST HIGHLIGHT
SOME OF THE GUIDELINES
FOR
BUILDING SITE IT'S RECOMMENDED
TO IDENTIFY AND RETAIN AND
PRESERVE BUILDINGS AND THEIR
FEATURES, ESPECIALLY THE
CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURES.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO
RADICALLY CHANGE BUILDINGS
THEIR FEATURES ESPECIALLY THOSE
WHICH ARE IMPORTANT WINDOWS.
IT IS RECOMMENDED TO DESIGN AND
INSTALL ADDITIONAL WINDOWS ON
THE REAR OF THE HOUSE OR A NON
CHARACTER DEFINING ELEVATION'S
IS NOT RECOMMENDED TO INSTALL
NEW WINDOWS THAT ARE
INCOMPATIBLE WITH THE
BUILDING'S HISTORIC APPEARANCE
FROM THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES.
>> IT'S NOT APPROPRIATE TO
REMOVE A RADICALLY CHANGE A
WINDOW THAT IS IMPORTANT IN THE
OVERALL CHARACTER FINDING
OF THE PROPERTY AND I GUESS
THAT'S ALL I HAVE FOR THIS ONE
.
SO THE WINDOWS AND THE SLIDING
GLASS DOOR THAT ARE PROPOSED TO
BE REPLACED ARE CURRENTLY FINAL
AND THEN AGAIN I'LL SAY IT THEY
ARE ALL NON HISTORIC.
THEY'RE VINYL AND THEY'RE ALL
NOT DESTROYED PARTS OF THE
HOUSES INCLUDING THE THREE
WINDOWS THAT ARE SUPPOSED TO BE
WIDENED ALL OF THE NEW WINDOWS
IN THE SLIDING GLASS DOOR WILL
BE WOOD CLAD WITH VINYL.
THE WINDOWS WILL BE EITHER
DOUBLE OR CASEMENT WINDOWS AND
NEW TRIM WILL BE A BORING
COMPOSITE AND THE TRIMET WITH
WILL MATCH THE CURRENT
DIMENSIONS ARE SHOWN ON THE
DRAWINGS AS WE SAW AND WHEN
ASKED IF THE DIMENSIONS COULD
BE BURIED IT COULD BE VARIED
FROM THE TRIM ON THE HISTORIC
HEART OF THE HOUSE, STAFF
LEARNED THAT THE TRIM CURRENTLY
BACKS UP TO THE VERY FRIABLE
NON ORIGINAL SIDING AND SO ANY
CHANGE IN THE TRIM DIMENSIONS
WOULD MEAN HAVING TO CHANGE THE
SIDING OR CHANGE OPENINGS.
AND SO SINCE THE TRIM IS
ALREADY DIFFERENTIATED ON THE
MODERN ADDITIONS, STAFF DOES
FIND THIS ACCEPTABLE AND
OVERALL STAFF BELIEVES THAT
REPLACING THE MODERN WINDOWS
AND ALTERING THE OPENING SIZES
ON MODERN ADDITIONS IS
COMPATIBLE WITH THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
NEIGHBORHOOD AND FIND THAT IT
MEETS THE GUIDELINES.
I'LL GO BACK TO THE PHOTOS BUT
THAT IS ALL I HAVE.
THANKS MARIJANA OK SO I WILL
GIVE MY REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT
AND I DON'T HAVE ANYTHING TO
ADD THE I JUST THINK IT WAS
REALLY CLEAR FROM THE STAFF
REPORT I THINK I DON'T THINK
ANYONE HAS ANY QUESTIONS ABOUT
THIS IF YOU HAVE QUESTIONS ON
THE SITE I WILL GO BACK TO IT.
BUT FOR THE SAKE OF BREVITY
LET'S LET'S MOVE ON TO THE
APPLICANT COMMENT.
>> SO WOULD THE APPLICANT
PLEASE STEP FORWARD, APPROACH
THE PODIUM, PROVIDE YOUR NAME
AND ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD
PLEASE AND YOU CAN COMMENT ON
THE STAFF REPORT.
>> SURE.
I'M KATE BRADLEY.
I LIVE AT FIVE FOUR 43RD STREET
WITH LAPINDO AND THE WINDOWS
THAT WE HAVE ARE COLD AND OLD
SO THAT'S THE REASON FOR THE
REPLACEMENT.
ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS I CAN
HELP ADDRESS?
I'M NOT SURE WHAT NEEDS TO BE
ELABORATED ON IF ANYTHING
PROBABLY NOTHING.
>> ARE THERE QUESTIONS FROM THE
COMMISSIONER?
NO QUESTIONS SO YOU CAN
ACTUALLY TAKE A SEAT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH, KATE.
APPRECIATE THAT.
WE WILL NOW MOVE ON TO THE
PUBLIC HEARINGS SO THEY WILL
OPEN THE PUBLIC HEARING FOR
THIS FOR FIVE FORTY FOR THIRD
STREET ANYONE VIRTUALLY NO.
>> VERY GOOD.
SO WE'LL CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING AND I WILL ASK IF A
COMMISSIONER WOULD LIKE TO MAKE
A MOTION PLEASE.
OK, THIS IS AN APPROPRIATE TEST
FOR THE EXECUTION OF MICHAEL
WORKSTREAM TREATMENT PROGRAM OR
WHETHER FOR REMOVAL REPLACE
ELEVEN BY A WIDENING OF THE ONE
POINT FORTY GLASS DOOR CLAD
WITH WINDOWS.
I SUPPOSE THE WORKS COMPATIBLE
WITH AN INTERIOR DESIGNER
OF MATERIAL IN RELATION TO THE
REST OF THE BUILDINGS
SURROUNDING AREA AND THE
SECRETARY OF INTERIOR
GUIDELINES THE STANDARDS
REHABILITATION GUIDELINES FOR
REHABILITATION STORY BUILDINGS
IN PARTICULAR STANDARDS TO FIND
AND TO GUIDELINES FOR BUILDINGS
LIKE THE WINDOWS AS ONE OF THE
AREAS FOR GIESBERT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR STEEP TURN YOUR
MIKE SO YOU HAVE TO READ THAT
ALL OVER AGAIN.
OK NOW WE GOT YOU IN SECOND AT
OK THANK YOU BOTH.
THAT WAS MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
KAPLIN AND SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER FORTNER.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION?
>> OK IT'S PRETTY STRAIGHT
FORWARD PRETTY STRAIGHTFORWARD
OK YEAH I WOULD AGREE THERE.
I THINK THAT YEAH SINCE IT'S SO
STRAIGHTFORWARD LET'S JUST GO
RIGHT TO A VOTE ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR OF THE MOTION PLEASE SAY
YES.
YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY
NO.
>> THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED
OK VERY GOOD.
>> SO NOW LET'S MOVE ON TO F
THREE THAT'S FIVE OH NINE WEST
LIBERTY STREET, MISS THATCHER
THE STAFF REPORT WHENEVER
YOU'RE READY
ONE MOMENT
BINDER'S TAKE ATTEMPTS TO TAKE
MY TIME.
OK, WE HAVE ONE ON WEST LIBERTY
STREET.
IS IT THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT?
IT'S A GREEK REVIVAL HOUSE THAT
PROBABLY APPEARS THE 1868 THE
CITY DIRECTORY AS THE HOME
OF CHRISTIAN GENTA OF GENDER
AND AH FURNITURE MANUFACTURERS.
I'VE ALWAYS FASCINATED BY THIS
HOUSE SO I WAS HAPPY TO BE ABLE
TO DIG A LITTLE BIT INTO THE
HISTORY AND GET A BETTER LOOK
AT IT BECAUSE IT'S A REALLY
COOL PLACE.
>> LET'S SEE IT USED TO BE
NUMBER FIFTY NINE WEST LIBERTY
STREET BY 1886 IT WAS HOME OF A
CABINET MAKER CHRISTIAN GENTA
AND THEN THERE WERE OTHER THERE
WAS ANOTHER CHRISTIAN GENTA AND
AN LC GENTA THERE FOR A LONG
TIME.
THERE'S A LITTLE BIT OF HISTORY
IN THE STAFF REPORT ON THAT
FAMILY THE GENDERS CHRISTIAN TO
ANN ARBOR IN LET'S SAY 1854 AND
THE FIRST APPEARANCE OF THIS
HOUSE IN THE CITY DIRECTORY WAS
1868.
SO IT WAS BUILT SOMETIME IN
THAT TIME PERIOD.
IT'S SIX KIDS AND A COUPLE
OF THEM LIVED IN THE HOUSE FOR
MUCH LONGER, WAS PROBABLY BUILT
IN TWO STAGES ON THE RIGHT YOU
SEE A CLASSIC ONE AND A HALF
STOREY SIDE GABLED GREEK
REVIVAL COTTAGE THE UPPER NEAT
WELL WINDOWS PLASTERED CENTER
ENTRY CORNER RETURNS AND EVENLY
SPACED WINDOWS.
THEN ON THE LEFT YOU SEE THE
GABLE FRONT PIECE WHICH FANCIER
HAS DEEPER EAVES WITH DENTALS
AND FANCIER WINDOWS WITH DRIP
CAPS.
THIS IS ON THE SOUTH SIDE
OF WEST LIBERTY BETWEEN THIRD
AND FOURTH STREETS AND THE
APPLICANT IS SEEKING HGC
APPROVAL TO CONSTRUCT A ONE
STORY EDITION ACROSS THE BACK
OF THE HOUSE.
ALL RIGHT.
MAKING OUR WAY AROUND THE HOUSE
YOU'LL SEE ON THE TWO STORY
PORTION NOT REALLY TWO STORIES
IT'S ONE OF THREE QUARTERS BUT
IT'S TALLER THAN THE OTHER SIDE
.
THEY ALSO HAVE NUAL WINDOWS
WHICH IS COOL WALKING AROUND.
THIS IS THE DRIVEWAY SIDE.
IF YOU LOOK BACK HERE YOU SEE
THE FIRST OF OUR REAR ADDITIONS
ON THIS HOUSE.
THIS IS NOT A HISTORIC EDITION
AND HERE IS A BETTER VIEW OF IT
.
IT'S IT'S A IT'S A HALF BATH
AND A STAIR ENCLOSURE.
THIS IS AN OLD DOOR BUT IT IS
NOT ORIGINAL TO THIS PART
OF THE HOUSE BECAUSE THIS IS A
NEW PART.
THEY'RE THERE THERE MAY HAVE
BEEN A BACK DOOR OPENING BACK
HERE AT SOME POINT ON THIS
WALL.
BUT AGAIN, KEEP IN MIND THAT
NONE OF THIS IS ORIGINAL AND
THAT DOOR IS SALVAGED FROM
SOMEPLACE ELSE THEN MOVING
ALONG IF YOU WENT IN THIS DOOR,
THE STAIRS DOWN WOULD GO
SOMETHING LIKE THIS.
YOU CAN SEE A WINDOW INTO THE
STAIRS AT GROUND LEVEL HERE AND
THIS IS A LITTLE SHELF BUILT
OVER THE STAIRS BUT LEFT LOW TO
ALLOW LIGHT IN THROUGH THIS
WINDOW.
THIS BACK PORCH IS ALL MODERN.
THIS ROOM ON THE BACK IS ALSO
MODERN.
SO PRETTY MUCH ANYTHING THAT
YOU SEE UNDER THIS ONE STOREY
ROOFLINE ON THE BACK IS MODERN
ZOOMING IN A LITTLE BIT WHEN
YOU'RE WHEN YOU'RE STANDING
THERE YOU CAN YOU CAN TELL IT'S
IT'S PRETTY EASY TO PICK IT OUT
.
THIS IS ALL NEW MATERIALS AND
THE DESIGNS A LITTLE DIFFERENT
.
THEY DID A NICE JOB OF COPYING
THE TRIM BUT AGAIN THIS IS NOT
A HISTORIC PART OF THE HOUSE
HERE GOING BACK AROUND TO THE
FRONT THIS IS FROM THE
SIDEWALK.
YOU CAN SEE THAT LITTLE LITTLE
THING IN THE BACK AND WHERE THE
ORIGINAL CORNER OF THE HOUSE
ENDED LOOKING AT EITHER SIDE TO
THE NEIGHBORS HOUSES.
THIS IS TO THE WEST.
THEY'VE GOT A PRETTY BIG ONE
STOREY EDITION OF THE BACK
HERE.
IN FACT, I THINK IT MAY GO ALL
THE WAY TO HERE AND THEN THE
EAST SIDE LOTS OF LEAVES BUT IF
YOU PEEK THROUGH HERE YOU CAN
SEE THAT THIS HOUSE ALSO HAS
ADDITIONS ONE STOREY ONES OR
MAYBE A GARAGE PLOWING WAY BACK
INTO THE BACK YARD.
THIS IS ONE OF THOSE HUGE
ORIGINAL CITY LOTS.
SO THERE'S A LOT OF ROOM BACK
HERE.
THE EXISTING ONE AND A HALF
STOREY HOUSE IS HERE.
IT'S ALL OF THE WHITE PART.
THE PROPOSAL IS TO TO ADD A
BEDROOM ON THE BACK HERE AND
BASICALLY BUMP OUT THE ROOF
OF THE ONE STOREY PORTION IN
THE BACK TO ADD SOME MORE SPACE
HERE.
ADD A SUN ROOM SORT OF BUILT
INTO THE HOUSE AND YOU'LL SEE
HOW THE STAIRS ARE REWORKED
WHEN WE GET A LITTLE BIT
FARTHER AGAIN, HUGE LOT LOTS
OF ROOM BACK THERE.
>> HERE'S WHAT WE LOOK LIKE
RIGHT NOW.
HERE'S THAT COVERED PORCH
THAT'S GOT THE THE THE GABLE
THERE'S THIS IS A PRIVATE BATH
WING ON THE LEFT.
THIS IS THAT
HALF BATHS WITH
THE STAIRS THAT I MENTIONED.
HERE'S WHAT'S PROPOSED.
IT'S IT'S TO PUMP THIS OUT
AGAIN NEW ENTRY DOOR REWORKED
STAIRS BACK HERE.
THIS THIS PART IS SUNROOM
ADDITIONS AND THEN THIS PART
OF THE NEW BEDROOM THE REASON
THAT IT'S HATCHED THIS WAY IS
TO DEMARCATE THE 1944 OR
FOOTPRINT OF THE HOUSE FROM
WHAT'S PROPOSED AND WHAT'S
THERE TODAY.
IT'S IT'S A LITTLE BIT ODD BUT
THERE USED TO BE A DIFFERENT
SERIES OF ONE STOREY ADDITIONS
ON THE BACK OF THIS HOUSE THAN
THERE ARE TODAY.
BUT IN 1944 WE KNOW THAT THAT
THERE WAS A BUMP OUT ON THE
BACK OF THIS HOUSE.
SO THERE WAS THERE WAS A
HISTORIC FLOOR AREA THAT THEY
GET TO COUNT AS THEIR ORIGINAL
FLOOR AREA.
SO THE PERCENT INCREASE IN THE
FOOTPRINT OVERALL CONSIDERING
ALL THE STUFF THAT WAS DONE
AFTER 1940 THE THE MODERN
EDITION THE BRAND NEW EDITIONS
IS ABOUT 45 PERCENT AND IT'S
ABOUT TWENTY NINE OR THIRTY
PERCENT OF THE OVERALL FLOOR
AREA THAT WILL BE INCREASED
ELEVATION DRAWING'S THIS IS THE
FRONT NO CHANGES ARE PROPOSED
AROUND HERE.
SO I CAN SEE YOU ELEVATION THIS
IS ALL EXISTING ONE STOREY
STUFF ON THE BACK AND YOU CAN
SEE THAT THEY WANT TO JUST
EXTRUDE A WALL.
IT'S NOT REALLY EXTRUDING
YOU'LL SEE IT BUT THEY PUT A
NEW ROOM ON THE BACK HERE AND
IT WOULD BE A BEDROOM WOULD
HAVE PERSON OR GOING OUT TO THE
BACKYARD.
THIS IS ALSO NEW THIS IS WHAT I
DESCRIBED AS THE SUNROOF.
THEY'RE NOT RAISING THIS ONE
STOREY ROOF ANY HIGHER.
THEY'RE TYING IT IN TO WHERE IT
IS RIGHT NOW SO THAT THEY DON'T
IMPACT ANY OF THE UPSTAIRS
WINDOWS WHICH IS APPRECIATED
BACK OF THE HOUSE ON THE TOP IS
WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE TODAY ON THE
BOTTOM THIS IS THE NEW BEDROOM
ADDITION TIES INTO THIS
EXISTING METAL ROOF AND THEN
WE'VE GOT BASICALLY A STRAIGHT
WALL WITH A ROOF THAT TIES INTO
THIS METAL ROOF AND BUMPS THE
BACK OF THE HOUSE OUT.
THERE'S A SIGNIFICANT INSET ON
BOTH CORNERS.
THE ADDITION IS SUPPOSED TO BE
CLAD IN CEMENT BOARD WITH SEVEN
INCH EXPOSURE, THE SHINGLES ON
ALL THE NEW WORK IS PROPOSED TO
BE COMPOSITE NOT METAL.
THIS IS ONE OF THE APPLICANT'S
PHOTOS THAT YOU SAW IN THE
APPLICATION.
BUT I JUST WANT TO PULL IT OUT
BECAUSE IT ILLUSTRATES THIS
INTERESTING BASEMENT STAIR ROOF
COVER .
YOU KNOW, SOMETIMES YOU SEE
THEM IN THERE, THEY'RE SLOPING
BUT THIS ONE IS JUST A PLATFORM
AND IT'S REALLY INTERESTING.
>> BUT THIS IS NOT AN ORIGINAL
WINDOW AND THIS IS NOT AN
ORIGINAL OR OPENING.
OK, I HAVE ALREADY READ TWO
NUMBERS TWO NINE AND TEN FROM
THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS FROM THE GUIDELINES
FOR NEW EDITIONS IT'S
RECOMMENDED TO CONSTRUCT A NEW
EDITIONS.
THERE'S THE LEAST POSSIBLE LOSS
OF HISTORIC MATERIALS AS THAT
CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURES ARE
NOT OBSCURED, DAMAGED OR
DESTROYED AND DESIGN NEW
EDITIONS IN A MANNER THAT MAKES
CLEAR WHAT'S HISTORIC AND
WHAT'S NEW.
IT'S ALSO RECOMMENDED TO LOCATE
THE EXTERIOR EDITION AT THE
REAR OR AN INCONSPICUOUS SITE
SITE OF A HISTORIC BUILDING AND
LIMITING ITS SIZE AND SCALE
RELATIONSHIP TO THE START
BUILDING FOR NEW EDITIONS.
IT'S RECOMMENDED TO CONSIDER
THE ATTACHED EXTERIOR EDITION
BOTH IN TERMS OF THE NEW USE
AND THE APPEARANCE OF OTHER
BUILDINGS IN THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT MAYBE CONTEMPORARY OR
ON MY REFERENCE DESIGN MOTIFS
FROM THE HISTORIC BUILDING.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO ATTACH
NEW EDITIONS.
THE CHARACTER DESIGN FEATURES
ARE OBSCURED, DAMAGED OR
DESTROYED.
IT'S ALSO NOT RECOMMENDED TO
DESIGN A NEW EDITIONS THAT ITS
SIZE AND SCALE ARE OUT
OF PROPORTION FOR DISTRICT OR
NEIGHBORHOOD SETTING.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO
INTRODUCE NEW CONSTRUCTION THAT
IS INCOMPATIBLE OR THAT
DESTROYS HISTORIC RELATIONSHIPS
WITHIN A SETTING.
IT'S ALSO NOT RECOMMENDED TO
REMOVE A RADICALLY CHANGE
BUILDING'S OTHER FEATURES WHICH
ARE IMPORTANT DEFINING THE
HISTORIC CHARACTER OF THE
BUILDING SITE SO THAT AS A
RESULT THE CHARACTER IS
DIMINISHED OR WINDOWS.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO
INTRODUCE A NEW DESIGN THAT'S
INCOMPATIBLE AND FROM THE
INTERIOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR ALL
EDITIONS TITIAN'S THE EDITION
SHOULD EXCEED ANOTHER HALF
OF THE ORIGINAL BUILDING'S
FOOTPRINT OR HALF OF THE
ORIGINAL BUILDING'S FLOOR AREA
ALREADY WENT OVER THAT IT'S
APPROPRIATE TO PLACE NEW WALLS
IN A DIFFERENT PLANE FROM THE
HISTORIC STRUCTURE IN A
SUBORDINATE POSITION TO THE
HISTORIC FABRIC AND BOTH OF THE
REAR CORNERS ARE INSET.
ALL NEW CONSTRUCTION SHOULD
RETAIN THE HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN BUILDING'S
LANDSCAPE FEATURES AND OFFICE
SPACE.
SO THAT CONCLUDES MY STAFF
REPORT.
I DO BELIEVE THAT THE HOUSE'S
CHARACTER NEW FEATURES ARE NOT
COMPROMISED BY THE ADDITION.
IT WOULD NOT BE VISIBLE FROM
THE STREET.
IT'S APPROPRIATELY LIMITED TO
ONE STORY AND THAT IT MEETS THE
STANDARDS IN FACT SO THANK YOU
.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH MISS
THATCHER.
I WILL NOW GIVE THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT.
I AGREE WITH THE STAFF REPORT
THAT THIS IS A REALLY GREAT
EXAMPLE OF A HISTORIC HOUSE IN
THE OLD WEST SIDE.
IT'S THAT CLASSIC UPRIGHT WITH
THE WING AND IT EVEN HAS A
COFFIN DOOR IN THE UPRIGHT
WHICH YOU KNOW, NOT EVERYONE
DOES.
IT'S JUST A COOL DETAIL AND IN
IT I FEEL LIKE EVERYTHING IN
THIS HOUSE LIKE THE DETAILS ARE
JUST TURNED UP ONE LEVEL FROM A
LOT THE OTHER HOMES THAT ARE
OF THIS EIGHTEEN 50S, 60S, 70S
YEAR LIKE THE THE DENTALS IN
THE TRIM IT JUST HAS ALL SO
MANY CHARACTER DEFINING
FEATURES AND THERE THEIR
EXISTING SO OH ONE OF THE
THINGS I NOTICED THAT I DIDN'T
NOTICE AT ON SITE BUT ON THE
STAFF REPORT THAT AS YOU GO
AROUND THE HOUSE THE OVERHANG
RIGHT THERE ON THE UPRIGHT IT'S
NOT THERE I ASSUME THERE USED
TO BE ONE BUT FOR WHATEVER
REASON THERE'S PROBABLY A STORY
THERE.
BUT THE THAT OVERHANG IS NO
LONGER THERE.
THE OTHER THING TO NOTE IS THAT
THERE IS IF YOU KEEP GOING
AROUND THE YEAH.
WHAT'S WHAT'S ON THE LEFT IN
OUR SCREEN THERE THERE IS A
RUBBLE FOUNDATION THAT IS
BEHIND THOSE SORT OF STORAGE
BOXES IN THE RAIN GUTTER
BARREL.
YEAH RIGHT THERE THAT GOES ALL
THE WAY AROUND AND RETURNS BACK
TO THE ORIGINAL YOU KNOW THE
THE PRE YEAH YOU CAN SEE IT
THERE.
SO THIS MIGHT HAVE BEEN A WELL
IF IF THAT WAS HISTORIC MAYBE
THIS IS THE PART THAT WAS
FILLED IN LIKE A FIELD IN PORCH
OR SOMETHING OR IT'S JUST
SOMEONE BUILT A NEW RUBBLE
FOUNDATION BECAUSE BECAUSE ON
THE ON THE SANDBORN IT'S INSET
.
CORRECT.
SO IT'S ONE OF THOSE THINGS
WHERE I KNEW THAT AND THEN
LOOKED AT THE FOUNDATION AND IT
LOOKED HISTORIC SO EITHER WAY
THEY'VE GOT THE CREDIT AND
THEY'RE UNDERNEATH THE FIFTY
PERCENT ON ON THE STANDARD.
>> THE JUST THE OTHER THING TO
NOTE THAT WAS IN THE STAFF
REPORT AS WELL IT'S JUST THAT
NONE OF THIS WORK IS VISIBLE
FROM THE SIDEWALK AND JUST
STANDING BACK THERE IN THE
BACKYARD EVEN LOOKING IMAGINING
THE ADDITIONS IN PLACE THERE'S
LIKE A VERY THICK FRIEZE BOARD
AND EVEN THAT IS GOING TO STILL
BE VISIBLE AFTER THIS WORK.
SO YOU KNOW, NOT ONLY IS IT NOT
VISIBLE FROM THE FROM THE
SIDEWALK BUT THE DESIGNER IS
VERY CAREFUL TO SAVE AS MUCH AS
IS POSSIBLE IN THIS IN THIS
PROJECT AND THAT IS MY REPORT.
SO NOW WE WILL ASK THAT THE THE
APPLICANT SHARE THE COMMENTS
PLEASE.
SO THE APPLICANT APPROACHED THE
PODIUM.
PLEASE PROVIDE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD AND THE
FLOOR IS YOURS FOR FIVE
MINUTES.
>> THANK YOU.
>> MY NAME IS BONNIE GRINSPOON
OF LOUIS GREEN SCREEN
ARCHITECTS AND I JUST WANT TO
SAY IT WAS A VERY DIFFICULT
HOUSE TO FIGURE HOW TO ADD ONTO
OBVIOUSLY ONTO THE BACK.
WE LOVE THE FRONT APPRECIATE
THE FRONT OF THE HOUSE.
DON'T WANT TO TOUCH THE FRONT
OF THE HOUSE OBVIOUSLY BUT WHEN
ONE WALKS AROUND TO THE BACK
OF THE HOUSE IT'S KIND OF LIKE
A OH WHAT HAPPENED HERE?
AND THERE'S KIND OF A
HODGEPODGE OF ADDITIONS LIKE
AND WE CAN'T EVEN DATE THEM SO
WE WANTED TO KIND
OF CONSOLIDATE AND MAKE IT LOOK
LIKE ONE ADDITION ONE CAN TAKE
YOU YOU KNOW, ONE CONSISTENT
ADDITION THAT DOESN'T LOOK LIKE
A HODGEPODGE.
THIS WAS DONE IN THE 1970S AND
THIS WAS DONE IN THE NINETEEN
FIFTIES.
SO THAT WAS OUR STRATEGY AS
WELL AS TRYING TO MAINTAIN AS
MUCH OF THE ORIGINAL BUILDING
AS WE COULD SO HAPPY TO ANSWER
QUESTIONS.
>> THANK YOU BONNIE.
ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE
APPLICANT?
OK SO YEAH TAKE A SEAT AND WE
MIGHT CALL YOU BACK UP BUT FOR
NOW WE'RE GOOD.
>> THANK YOU FOR THAT AND WE
WILL OPEN THE PUBLIC HEARING
FOR THIS APPLICATION THIS IS
FIVE OR NINE WEST LIBERTY
STREET AND NO ONE'S APPROACHING
THE PODIUM HERE.
I'M ASSUMING YOU DON'T HAVE
ANYONE VIRTUALLY VERY GOOD.
SO NOW WE WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING PORTION AND I WILL ASK
IF A COMMISSIONER WOULD LIKE TO
MAKE A MOTION ON THE HEY I MOVE
THAT THE COMMISSION ISSUE A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
FOR THE APPLICATION AT FIVE OR
NINE WEST LIBERTY STREET
ATTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN THE OLD
WEST SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT TO
CONSTRUCT A SINGLE STOREY REAR
VISION AS PROPOSED.
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE AND
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL AND
RELATIONSHIP TO
SURROUNDING
RESOURCES.
MITZI ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR
ADDITIONS AND NEW CONSTRUCTION
AND SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION
AND GUIDELINES FOR
REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TO NINE AND TEN IN
THE GUIDELINES FOR DISTRICT
NEIGHBORHOOD BUILDING SITE NEW
ADDITIONS AND WINDOWS ANYONE
GOING TO SECOND DOWN SECOND
THANK YOU.
>> THAT WAS MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER ROSS AND SECONDED
BY COMMISSIONER FORTNER.
>> IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ON
THE MOTION?
>> I THINK YEAH I WOULD LOVE TO
HEAR SOMETHING.
YEAH I WAS GOING TO SAY I'M
REALLY HAPPY TO SEE AN ADDITION
THAT'S REALLY RESPECTFUL OF THE
HISTORIC BUILDING HISTORIC
PORTION OF THE BUILDING AND
THIS IS A FABULOUS, FABULOUS
LITTLE HOUSE AND I'M REALLY
HAPPY TO SEE THAT THE SCALE THE
PLACEMENT YOU KNOW, OBVIOUSLY
THE DESIGNER IS IN IS IN A
PRETTY GOOD POSITION BECAUSE
IT'S ESSENTIALLY ALL KIND
OF NEW ADDITIONS ON THE REAR.
SO IT'S VERY EASY TO KIND
OF ADD ONTO THAT.
BUT IT'S IT'S THE TYPE
OF ADDITIONS I LIKE TO SEE AND
I THINK IT REALLY MEETS THE
STANDARDS SO WELL.
>> SO THANK YOU FOR THAT.
I'LL JUST ADD ON TO THAT TO SAY
I AGREE WITH YOU LIKE
CONCEPTUALLY IT WAS PROBABLY A
VERY INTERESTING BUT THEN THE
ACTUAL PIECING TOGETHER OF HOW
TO MAKE IT WORK WITHIN THE
FIFTY PERCENT STANDARD I THINK
WAS PROBABLY QUITE CHALLENGING
BUT WAS ACCOMPLISHED IN THIS
PROPOSAL.
SO I AGREE WITH YOU THERE AND
JUST ADD ON THAT THAT ONE
COMMENT ANY OTHER COMMENTS?
>> VERY GOOD.
OK, WELL SEE NO MORE COMMENTS.
LET'S GO TO A VOTE.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY YES.
YES, YES ALL THOSE OPPOSED
PLEASE SAY NO.
>> THE MOTION CARRIED YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> OK SO NOW MOVING RIGHT ALONG
HERE WE WILL MOVE ON TO HEARING
EF FOUR THAT IS SIX OR NINE
SECONDS ST. MARIJANA THE STAFF
REPORT PLEASE.
SO WE ARE AT SIX OR NINE STREET
WHICH IS A ONE STORY VERNACULAR
FRAME HOUSE WITH A
COVERED FRONT PORCH AND A GABLE
ROOF BUILDING PERMITS SHOW THAT
THE HOUSE WAS BUILT IN NINETEEN
HUNDRED AND THE CITY ASSESSOR
SAYS THAT IT WAS BUILT IN
NINETEEN EIGHTY ONE.
THIS PARTICULAR CORNER WAS NOT
INCLUDED ON THE SANDBORN MAPS
UNTIL NINETEEN TWENTY FIVE AND
THE HOUSE DOES FIRST APPEAR AND
IS SHOWN WITH AN IRREGULAR
FOOTPRINT THE FORM HAD CHANGED
SLIGHTLY BY THE NINETEEN FORTY
EIGHT SANDBORN MAP WHERE B.
S BUMP OUT WAS EXTENDED AND A
SCREENED PORCH WAS ADDED.
AT SOME POINT THIS PORCH WAS
ENCLOSED.
WE'RE NOT SURE WHEN AFTER
NINETEEN FORTY FIVE THE
BASEMENT STAIRS ON THE SOUTH
PART OF THE HOUSE AND THE
NORTHEAST WERE ADDED.
WE'LL SEE THOSE AS WE MOVE
THROUGH THE PHOTOS OTHER
HISTORY THE HOUSE WAS RECITED
WITH ALUMINUM SIDING IN
NINETEEN FIFTY NINE AND THE
WOOD PORCH THAT SAME YEAR WAS
THE DECKING ON WOOD PORCH WAS
REPLACED WITH CONCRETE IN
NINETEEN EIGHTY SIX A NEW ROOF
WAS INSTALLED ON THE PORCH AND
THEN IN NINETEEN NINETY EIGHT A
NEW ROOF WAS INSTALLED ON THE
HOUSE AND IN TWO THOUSAND TO
THE ALUMINUM SIDING THAT WAS
INSTALLED IN THE FIFTIES WAS
REMOVED AND THE ORIGINAL
WEBSITE AND TRIM WERE RESTORED
.
HOUSE IS LOCATED ON THE EAST
SIDE OF SECOND STREET SOUTH
OF WEST MADISON AND NORTHWEST
MOSTLY THERE ARE A HANDFUL
OF DIFFERENT ELEMENTS TO THIS
APPLICATION.
THE APPLICANT SEEKS HGC
APPROVAL TO EXTEND THE GABLED
ROOF OVER THE BASEMENT STAIRS
IN THE REAR OF THE HOUSE.
WE'LL SEE THAT AS WE MOVE
THROUGH THE PHOTOS.
ADD AN EGRESS WINDOW ON THE
SOUTH ELEVATION AND REBUILD
SOME PORTIONS OF THE
FOUNDATION.
THE APPLICANT ALSO PROPOSES TO
REPLACE THE REAR DOOR REPAIR
AND REPLACE THE EXISTING ROOF
ON ONE PART OF THE HOUSE.
RELOCATE A PAIR OF HISTORIC
WINDOWS TO A DIFFERENT
ELEVATION AND THEN INSTALL A
NEW FENCE AND A SKYLIGHT.
SO WE'LL MOVE THROUGH ALL
OF THOSE DIFFERENT ELEMENTS, A
LOT OF KIND OF LITTLE THINGS
HAPPENING.
SO JUST THIS IS MOVING TOWARDS
THE REAR OF THE HOUSE.
WE'RE GOING TO BE FOCUSING THIS
BUMP OUT HERE PRIMARILY AND
THEN THAT'S THE OTHER SIDE
OF IT SOME WINDOWS AND THEN
ALSO THIS REAR PORTION OF THE
HOUSE WILL BE FOCUSING ON THIS
IS WHERE THE APPLICANT PROPOSES
EXTENDING THIS ROOF HERE
THEY'VE HAD SOME ISSUES WITH
THE WATER THIS KIND OF HALF
ROOF HERE COVERS THE BASEMENT
STAIRS AND WHERE YOU SEE THIS
CUT OUT THIS PORTION HERE THAT
COVERS THE BASEMENT STAIRS WAS
ADDED POST NINETEEN FORTY FIVE.
SO THIS LITTLE BIT HERE IS
OUTSIDE OF THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE.
SO THIS ROOF WILL BE EXTENDED
AND THEN THE WALL HERE WILL
COME UP TO MEET THE NEW ROOF
LINE.
THE NEW ROOF WILL FEATURE
ASPHALT SHINGLES TO MATCH THE
EXISTING HEIGHT ROOF HERE AND
THEN THE FISH PARTS WE BORROW
THE FOOTPRINT WILL NOT INCREASE
WITH THE ROOF EXTENSION AND
THEN BECAUSE THIS ISN THE
REAR OF THE HOUSE, THIS PORTION
OF THE ROOF IS NOT VISIBLE FROM
THE RIGHT OF WAY.
LIKE I SAID, THIS WALL WILL BE
EXTENDED UPWARDS SO THESE TWO
WINDOWS HERE WILL BE REMOVED
DURING THE PROCESS THE NEW WALL
WILL HAVE A CEDAR CLAPBOARD
SIDING WHICH WILL BE SLIGHTLY
WIDER THAN THE HISTORIC SIDING
THAT YOU SEE HERE OR THAT YOU
SEE ON THE SIDE OF THE HOUSE
AND THEN A NEW THREE FOUR ONE
WINDOW WITH PAUL KEESING WILL
BE INSTALLED ON THIS NEW FULL
HEIGHT WALL TO SEE IF THEY CAN
GET A BETTER VIEW.
SO WITH THIS WALL EXTENSION,
IT'S ALSO GOING TO EXTEND INTO
THIS PART OF THE HOUSE AND YOU
SEE HERE THERE ARE TWO HISTORIC
SIX OVER ONE WOOD WINDOWS THAT
WILL BE REMOVED AS PART OF THE
PROCESS.
THESE OPENINGS WILL BE FILLED
WITH A NARROW CEDAR CLAPBOARD
SIDING THAT WILL MATCH THE
HISTORIC IN WITH THE APPLICANT
PROPOSED IS TAKING THESE TWO
WINDOWS AND THEN MOVING THEM TO
THIS SIDE OF THE HOUSE WHERE
YOU SEE THESE TWO CASEMENT
WINDOWS HERE.
THIS IS THE PORTION I MENTIONED
EARLIER.
THIS IS THE PORCH THAT WAS
ENCLOSED AT SOME POINT.
SO WE DON'T KNOW WHEN IT WAS
ENCLOSED.
UM, BUT THE EXISTING WINDOWS
HERE ARE WOOD CASEMENT WINDOWS
WITH A SIMPLE TRIM AND SO SINCE
THEY ARE WOOD WINDOWS BUT WE'RE
NOT SURE WHEN THE PORCH WAS
ENCLOSED STAFF IS UNSURE IF
THESE WINDOWS WERE INSTALLED
BEFORE OR AFTER NINETEEN FORTY
FIVE THEN THESE TWO WINDOWS
THAT YOU SEE HERE ALSO TO
CASEMENT WINDOWS THAT WE DON'T
KNOW WHEN THEY WERE INSTALLED
THE APPLICANT PROPOSES REMOVING
THESE TWO AND THEN INSTALLING
THREE WOULD CUT CORD WITH SIX
LIGHT WINDOWS SO THERE WILL BE
ONE TWO THREE HERE IT'S THE
SAME HEIGHT BUT THEN THE
OVERALL WINDOW OPENING WILL BE
WIDENED TO ACCOMMODATE A THIRD
WINDOW HERE SO WE CAN TALK
ABOUT THAT MORE.
YOU CAN SEE IT MORE ON THE
DRAWINGS BUT THESE WILL BE WOOD
CAR WINDOWS AND THEN THE CASING
WILL BE BORING SO THAT IS A LOT
OF LITTLE DETAILS THERE.
ALSO THE APPLICANT PROPOSES
REPLACING AND OR REPAIRING A
RUBBER ROOF THAT EXISTS OVER
THIS PORTION OF THE HOUSE WHICH
HAS THAT ENCLOSED PORCH AND
THEN THERE'LL BE NEW LARGER
GUTTERS, PORTIONS OF THE
CONCRETE FOUNDATION AGAIN AT
THIS CORNER OF THE PUMP THAT
ARE DAMAGED AND ARE PROPOSED TO
BE REBUILT WHICH WILL ALLOW THE
OWNERS TO INSTALL A NEW FULL
HEIGHT BASEMENT WITH THAT DENHA
FOR BASEMENT AND EGRESS WINDOWS
PROPOSED THAT WILL BE RIGHT
HERE UNDER THESE TWO WINDOWS
HERE AND THEN THERE IS THIS
SOMETHING GREAT THAT WILL HELP
MAKE THE WINDOW LESS VISIBLE
FROM THE RIGHT OF WAY BECAUSE
IT IS ON THE SIDE OF THE HOUSE,
NOT THE REAR.
>> THIS EXTERIOR DOOR HERE IS
PROPOSED TO BE TAKEN OUT AND
REPLACED AGAIN THIS KIND
OF PORTION OF THE HOUSE WHERE
THE ROOF CUTS IN IS NON
HISTORIC.
IT WAS ADDED AFTER NINETEEN
FORTY FIVE OF THESE BASEMENT
STAIRS THERE WILL ALSO BE AND
THIS DOOR WILL BE REPLACED WITH
HALF LIKE MAHOGANY DOOR WITH
TWO PIANOS AND THEN A MATCHING
SCREEN STORM DOOR ON THE ON THE
REAR OF THE HOUSE.
JUST KEEP THIS IMAGE THERE WILL
BE A NEW VENT PENETRATION AND A
RADON MITIGATION SYSTEM.
NONE OF THESE WILL BE VISIBLE
THE RIGHT OF WAY AND WILL HAVE
A MINIMAL EFFECT ON THE
HISTORIC SIDING AND THEN A
SMALL SKYLIGHT WILL BE
INSTALLED ON THE S ROOF SURFACE
NEAR THE REAR OF THE HOUSE.
SO THAT'LL BE RIGHT UP HERE AND
IT WILL HAVE A LOW LOW PROFILE
AND WON'T BE VERY VISIBLE.
SO WALK THROUGH SOME PHOTOS
JUST TO HIGHLIGHT AGAIN HERE IS
THE PLAN SO YOU CAN SEE HERE IS
WHERE THE NEW ROOF WILL BE OVER
THOSE BASEMENT STAIRS AND THEN
HERE IS WHERE THE NEW EGRESS
WINDOW WALL WILL BE WHEN THE
WELL WILL BE WE'RE IN THIS
CORNER WHERE WE'RE REBUILDING
THE FOUNDATION AND NEW RADOM
MITIGATION SYSTEM HERE
.
THIS IS THE PART THIS IN RIGHT
HERE IS THAT PART OF THE HOUSE
THAT WAS INSTALLED AFTER
NINETEEN FORTY FIVE AND YOU CAN
SEE THIS IS THE EXTERIOR DOOR
THAT IS PROPOSED TO BE REPLACED
THIS IS WHERE THAT ROOF WILL BE
LENGTHENED AND THEN WHERE A
WALL WILL MEET THE NEW ROOF
LINE SEE HERE THESE ARE WHERE
THERE ARE CURRENTLY TWO
CASEMENT WINDOWS AND THEN
THEY'RE PROPOSING A THIRD AND
THIS IS WHERE THE HISTORIC
WINDOWS ARE CURRENTLY THOSE SIX
OVER ONES AND THEN THEY'RE
PROPOSING TO MOVE THEM HERE TO
THIS SIDE WHERE THERE ARE
CURRENTLY THOSE CASEMENT
WINDOWS
THEN REPAIRING AND
REPLACING THE ROOF AND ADDING
NEW LARGER GUTTERS.
AND THEN HERE IS WHERE THE NEW
SKYLIGHT WILL BE SOME
ELEVATIONS NOTHING REALLY
HAPPENING TO THE FRONT OF THE
HOUSE EXCEPT FOR THIS PART
OF THE ROOF WILL BE REPAIRED
,
SASH REPLACED AND THEN YOU WILL
AND THEN ALSO THE EGRESS WINDOW
WILL THIS IS THE EXISTING SO
YOU CAN SEE THOSE HISTORIC
WINDOWS AND THEN THIS IS THE
ENCLOSED PORCH AND THEN THIS IS
THAT EXTERIOR OR NEW EVENTS AND
THEN THEY RADON MITIGATION
SYSTEM HERE IS A THREE WINDOWS
AND THEN THOSE TWO WINDOWS IN
INFELD KIND EXISTING WITH THAT
PARTIAL HEIGHT WALL AND THEN
THE ROOF CUT OUT THESE TWO
WINDOWS ON THE ENCLOSED PORCH
AND THEN WHAT IS PROPOSED WITH
RELOCATING THOSE HISTORIC
WINDOWS TO THE SIDE OF THE
HOUSE AND THEN KEEPING A SIMPLE
TRIM TO DIFFERENTIATE THEM FROM
THE WINDOWS THAT WERE ACTUALLY
THERE BECAUSE THESE ARE
HISTORIC WINDOWS ON THE HOUSE.
>> THEY WOULD JUST BE RELOCATED
TO A NEW LOCATION, A A NINETEEN
EIGHTY PHOTO OF THE HOUSE WHICH
I CAN'T REALLY SEE ALL THAT
MUCH.
>> BUT YOU DO SEE THE PREVIOUS
SIDING.
>> HERE'S THAT DOOR JUST A
CLOSE UP FROM INSIDE AND THEN
WHAT IS PROPOSED FOR THE NEW
DOOR MAHOGANY WITH THE LIGHT
AND THEN THE PANELS.
WE HAVE ALREADY BEEN THROUGH
THESE STANDARDS BUT I WILL TALK
ABOUT SOME OF THE DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING SITE.
IT IS RECOMMENDED TO PROTECT
AND MAINTAIN THE BUILDING BY
PROVIDING PROPER DAMAGE TO
ENSURE THAT WATER DOES NOT
ERODE THE FOUNDATION WALLS ARE
HAVING ISSUES WITH THAT CUT OUT
IN THE ROOF.
>> IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO
RADICALLY CHANGE CHARACTER
DEFINING ROOFS.
IT IS FOR WINDOWS.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO CHANGE
THE NUMBER, LOCATION, SIZE OR
GLAZING PATTERN OF WINDOWS
THROUGH CUTTING NEW OPENINGS OR
INSTALLING REPLACEMENT WINDOWS
THAT DON'T FIT THE HISTORIC
OPENINGS FROM THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES, IT IS APPROPRIATE
TO RETAIN AND MAINTAIN HISTORIC
ROOFING MATERIALS APPROPRIATE
ALSO TO REPAIR.
>> IT'S NOT APPROPRIATE TO
CHANGE THE SHAPE AND
CONFIGURATION OF THE EXISTING
ROOF.
I'M NOT SURE IF I MENTIONED
THIS AT THE EDGE OF THE ROOF
WILL NOT CHANGE WHEN THEY
REPAIR THE RUBBER ROOFING FOR
WOOD SIDING IT IS APPROPRIATE
TO PRESERVE AND MAINTAIN WOOD
SIDING AND ALSO REPLACING WOOD
SIDING SHINGLES AND TRIM AND
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES WITH
COMPONENTS THAT EXACTLY MATCHED
THE ORIGINAL AND DIMENSION,
DETAIL AND TEXTURE IT IS FOR
WINDOWS APPROPRIATE TO RETAIN
AND MAINTAIN WINDOWS IN GOOD
CONDITION.
>> IT'S NOT APPROPRIATE TO
REMOVE FOR RADICALLY CHANGE A
WINDOW THAT IS IMPORTANT IN
DEFINING THE OVERALL CHARACTER
OF A PROPERTY OR CHANGING THE
NUMBER, LOCATION AND SIZE
OF WINDOWS FOUR DOORS.
>> IT IS APPROPRIATE TO REPLACE
A MISSING ORIGINAL OR NOT
ORIGINAL DOOR WITH A COMPATIBLE
DESIGN AND THEN FOR MECHANICAL
EQUIPMENT IT'S APPROPRIATE TO
ATTACH IT ATTACH A MECHANICAL
EQUIPMENT TO THE HISTORIC
FABRIC IS NOT DESTROYED OR
DAMAGE AND IT IS APPROPRIATE TO
INSTALL MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT
AND WIRING THAT IS NOT VISIBLE
FROM THE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY.
>> SO LIKE I SAID A LOT
OF DIFFERENT PIECES TO THIS
APPLICATION.
I'M HAPPY TO GO BACK THROUGH
AND TALK MORE ABOUT SOME
OVERALL STAFF RECOMMENDS
APPROVAL OF MAJORITY OF THE
WORK WHICH WE FIND APPROPRIATE
AND WILL ENSURE THE LONGEVITY
OF THE HOUSE STAFF IS HESITANT
ABOUT THE PROPOSAL TO REMOVE
THE TWO SIX ONE HISTORIC
WINDOWS AND REINSTALL THEM ON A
DIFFERENT SIDE OF THE HOUSE
EVEN THOUGH TRIM WILL
DIFFERENTIATE THEM JUST BECAUSE
WE DON'T KNOW WHEN THAT PORCH
WAS ENCLOSED AND THAT IS ALL I
HAVE
.
>> THANKS MIRANA.
>> OK, I WILL GIVE THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT IN ONE MOMENT
.
>> YEAH WELL THERE IS A THERE'S
A LOT GOING ON IN THIS PROPOSAL
.
I THINK THE PROPOSAL IS THE
APPLICATION IS IS VERY CLEAR
AND SO IT'S KIND OF EASY TO
FOLLOW EVEN THOUGH IT IS A
LITTLE TRICKY.
>> ALSO THE STAFF REPORT HELPED
A LOT WITH REALLY JUST STARING
AT THAT PHOTO AND GOING THROUGH
EXACTLY WHAT'S GOING ON IN THAT
BACK CORNER.
>> I THINK JUST TO REITERATE
THAT IS YOU KNOW, WE WERE WAY
BACK ON THE DRIVEWAY AND KIND
OF LOOKING IN.
RIGHT.
SO IT'S REALLY HIDDEN FROM YOU
KNOW, HIDDEN FROM THE SIDEWALK
THAT ALL THE KIND OF FIXING UP
THAT IS THAT KIND OF TOOK A
WHILE TO EXPLAIN IT.
>> YOU WON'T SEE IT FROM THE
SIDEWALK.
I THINK THAT SOMETHING TO NOTE
IS THERE IS LIKE A VERTICAL
LINE IN THE CLABBERED SIDING
THAT YOU CAN REALLY SEE A
DELINEATION BETWEEN WHERE THAT
PORCH WAS FILLED IN.
SO THAT JUST GIVES YOU YOU HAVE
A PHOTO OF THAT OR AT LEAST WE
CAN POINTED OUT IN A PHOTO IT
JUST SHOWS IT.
YEAH, YOU CAN SEE IT THERE.
SO THAT'S A HINT THAT THAT WAS
A PORCH THAT WAS FILLED IN AT
SOME POINT AND AND SO WE DON'T
KNOW WHEN THAT WAS BUT THAT
JUST AT LEAST GIVES SOME
GHOSTING THAT THAT THAT IN FACT
HAPPENED WHICH IS HELPFUL AND
THIS IS DECENTLY VISIBLE LIKE
WE'RE IN THE NEIGHBOR'S
DRIVEWAY RIGHT NOW BUT IT IS A
DRIVEWAY SIDE.
YOU WILL BE ABLE TO SEE THESE
WINDOWS BUT THEY ARE TOWARD THE
BACK OF THE HOUSE AND THAT I
THINK WHAT'S NICE IS THAT THE
THE EXISTING HISTORIC WINDOWS
THERE TO THE LEFT AND THE ONES
IN THE FRONT HAVE A LITTLE BIT
OF A FANCIER WINDOW HEAD DETAIL
THEY HAVE THAT YOU KNOW, A
LITTLE POINT ON TOP AND THESE
AS DESCRIBED IN THE STAFF
REPORT WE'LL JUST HAVE A PLAIN
TRIM.
SO EVEN THOUGH THEY'LL KIND
OF LOSE THEIR CHARACTER IN A
WAY BY MOVING THEM, THEY WILL
BE DIFFERENTIATED AS AS
DIFFERENT AT LEAST AND IN
SOMEWHERE THAT WAS OBVIOUSLY
INFELD AS WELL.
I FEEL LIKE BOTH OF THOSE
THINGS HELP WITH MOVING THESE
THESE WINDOWS IN ORDER TO FIX
THAT KIND OF A TOUGH SITUATION
FROM A YOU KNOW, STORMWATER
STANDPOINT.
>> THE WINDOWS REALLY NEED TO
MOVE.
I MEAN IT REALLY THAT THAT
NEEDS TO BE FIXED SO YEAH.
AND THE OTHER THING IS JUST I
WONDER IF THIS IS THIS A NINE
OH NINETEEN OH ONE BUILDING OR
IS THAT JUST THE DEFAULT NUMBER
THAT THEY PUT IN THE DATABASE
OR ANYTHING THAT'S BEFORE
NINETEEN HUNDRED OR IS THIS
JUST A COINCIDENCE.
>> IT ACTUALLY IS A NINETEEN OR
ONE NO CITYWIDE THAT IS A
DEFAULT YEAH PROBABLY MORE THAN
THAT IN THE OLD WEST SIDE THE
DATES SHOULD BE CORRECT.
OK SO IF IT WERE BUILT IN 1901
ASSESSOR SAID NINETEEN EIGHTY
ONE THAT THAT THAT'S RIGHT
SISTER CONFIRMED.
WE'LL GET TO YOU IN A SEC BUT
GOOD I'D LOVE FOR YOU TO
COMMENT ON THAT GREAT.
>> AND IN FACT LET'S GET TO YOU
RIGHT NOW WITH THE APPLICANT.
ARE YOU THE APPLICANT TO
APPLICANT CAN YOU PLEASE
APPROACH THE PODIUM AND STATE
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS FOR THE
RECORD HIGH AND PLEASE YOU HAVE
THE FLOOR NOW FOR SOME
COMMENTS.
I THINK HE WAS OK SIX OR NINE
SECONDS TREAT FOR HAVE LIVED
THERE SINCE NINETEEN NINETY TWO
WHEN ALL I WANTED TO SAY WAS
ABOUT THE AGE OF THE HOUSE WHEN
I HAD THE ALUMINUM SIDING
REMOVED THE WHOLE FRONT THE
CONTRACTOR THAT DID THAT HE
GUESSTIMATED THAT THE HOUSE WAS
PROBABLY FROM LIKE EIGHTEEN YOU
KNOW EIGHTY SOMETHING OKAY.
AND I HAVE GONE THROUGH
ANCESTRY AND LOOKED AT VOTING
RECORDS AND ALL THAT STUFF AND
SO I TRACK PEOPLE BACK TO THE
EIGHTEEN SOMETHING LIKE NOT AS
I MEAN NEIGHBORS HAVE A HOUSE
THAT'S EIGHTEEN FIFTY SO NOT
THAT OLD BUT AT LEAST EIGHTEEN
EIGHTY SOMEWHERE IN THERE.
SO IT IS OLDER THAN THE DEFAULT
DATE AND THAT'S ALL I WANTED TO
SAY.
THANK YOU.
IT'S SO HARD FOR ME TO STAY
QUIET.
I HAVE ALL KINDS OF THINGS TO
SAY.
WELL WE APPRECIATE THAT.
THANK YOU.
COFAN WINDOW.
OH OK I'M FORWARD WITH MY
DESIGN BUILD.
I REPRESENT THE KIMBELL MY
DESIGN TEAM.
I PUT THIS APPLICATION TOGETHER
AND DEVELOP THE PROJECT WITH
VICTIM BILL THAT'S ASHLEY
KIRSTEN AND CATHERINE FILLMORE
AND ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
REALLY STRUCK US WITH THE HOUSE
WAS OBVIOUSLY THAT ROOFLINE AND
JUST HOW DIFFERENT IT WAS AND
OUR GOAL HERE WAS TO REALLY
STRIKE A COHESIVE BALANCE WITH
THE ROOFLINE AND HOPEFULLY A
VERY SIMPLE WAY.
BUT THEN WE FELT THE THE
WINDOWS ON THE BACK WERE JUST
MORE APPROPRIATE PROPORTIONALLY
TO THE SIDE OF THE HOUSE.
THAT WAS REALLY THE DRIVER FOR
US WITH THAT AND THE OTHER
DRIVER IS REALLY MAKING US AN
AGENT IN PLACE HOME WITH OUR
INTERIOR REMODELS AND MOVEMENTS
OF SOME OF THOSE WINDOWS BUT
REALLY IMPROVING THE EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE AND THE ABILITY TO
MANAGE WATER WAS A REAL DRIVING
FACTOR FOR US AS WELL.
VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU.
JUST ONE SEC.
LET'S SEE IF THERE'S ANY
QUESTIONS HERE.
ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE APPLICANT
.
VERY GOOD.
OK, THANK YOU.
APPRECIATE JEFF.
>> OK, WE WILL WE WILL OPEN UP
THE PUBLIC HEARING NOW FOR
WHERE IT'S SIX OH NINE.
>> DO WE HAVE ANOTHER COMMENT
IS BILL YES.
STATE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS
WHEN KOPPENHAVER SIX OR NINE
SECONDS.
THANK YOU.
AND WE HAVE BEEN IN THE PROCESS
WHEN YOU SHOW PICTURES OF THE
WITNESS ALL THE WAY AROUND THE
HOUSE OF RESTORING THEM.
YEAH.
AND THOSE ARE THE LAST TWO IN
THE STUDY THAT WE HAVEN'T
RESTORED BECAUSE WE DON'T WANT
TO PAY TO RESTORE WE CAN'T MOVE
THEM.
THEY ARE IDENTICAL TO THE OTHER
WINDOWS ALL THE WAY AROUND AND
MY THOUGHT PROCESS WAS THAT
EVERY TIME THEY PUT AN ADDITION
ON BUT THEY PUT THE BEDROOM IN
THE PORCH ON THEY USE THE
WINDOWS THAT RUN THAT SIDE
OF THE HOUSE IN THE BEDROOM AND
WHEN THEY USE WHEN THEY ADDED
THE KITCHEN ON THE BACK THERE
WOULD HAVE BEEN TWO WINDOWS IN
THE BACK OF THE HOUSE AND THE
ORIGINAL STRUCTURE AND SO THEY
MOVED THAT AND PUT RIGHT NEXT
TO THE OTHER ONE.
SO IT'S IN THE SPIRIT OF THE
HOUSE TO MOVE THE WINDOWS THAT
ARE EXISTING THERE TO ANOTHER
LOCATION WHEN YOU MAKE
ADDITIONS OR CHANGE TO IT.
SO IT'S KEEPING WITH THE SPIRIT
HOUSE MOVE THOSE WINDOWS AND I
WOULD LIKE I LOVE THOSE AND
SOME OF THEM ARE THE GLASS.
SO YOU CAN STILL SEE THE WAVY
FEATURES AND SO I WOULD LOVE TO
HAVE THOSE ON THAT SIDE.
>> GREAT.
THANK YOU BILL
.
>> WELL THAT WAS AN INSPIRING
COMMENT.
WE APPRECIATE THAT.
THANK YOU.
>> OK, SO NOW WE WILL OPEN THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS
APPLICATION.
THIS IS SIX AND NINE SECOND
STREET AND THERE'S NO ONE
APPROACHING THE PODIUM.
>> WE DON'T HAVE ANYONE
VIRTUALLY SO WE WE DID IT THE
PUBLIC HEARING WAS OPEN AND NOW
IT'S GOING TO BE CLOSED AND I
WILL ASK IF THERE'S A
COMMISSIONER WHO WOULD LIKE TO
MAKE A MOTION.
WE'RE LOW ON COMMISSIONERS THIS
WEEK'S OR THIS MONTH.
SO.
OH GOSH.
ALL RIGHT.
SO YOU CAN'T DO IT.
>> IT SOUNDS LIKE WE GOT ONE.
OK, ARE WE GOING TO DO BOTH?
OH WELL THIS IS UP TO YOU I
GUESS IF YOU'RE MAKING THE
MOTION BUT WHAT DO WE HAVE TWO
MOTIONS.
>> ONE IS FOR EVERYTHING BUT
THE WINDOWS AND THE OTHER ONE
FOR THE HISTORIC WINDOWS THAT
ARE BEING REMOVED AND THE OTHER
ONE WELL AND I'M A LITTLE SO
YEAH.
TOO OK THAT IS SO THE FIRST ONE
IS FOR EVERYTHING BUT THOSE TWO
WINDOWS THE SECOND ONE IS
REMOVING THEM AND RELOCATING
THEM.
YEAH OK THAT SOUNDS GOOD.
I MEAN IT'S WRITTEN THAT WAY SO
LET'S DO IT AND THAT'S THE LAST
YEAR SO THE FIRST WILL BE I
MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION ISSUES
A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT SIX OR NINE
SECOND STREET A CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO EXTEND THE
ROOF AND WALL OVER THE BASEMENT
STAIRS REPAIR AND REPLACE THE
RUBBER ROOF OVER THE SOUTHERN
BUMP OUT REPAIR AND REPLACE THE
FOUNDATION UNDER THE SOUTHERN
PUMP OUT AT AN EGRESS WINDOW
AND WELL ON THE SOUTHERN
ELEVATION.
REPLACE THE REAR EXTERIOR DOOR,
INSTALL NEW VENTS AND A REDONE
SYSTEM AT THE REAR OF THE HOUSE
AND INSTALL A SKYLIGHT ON THE S
ROOFS SURFACE AS PROPOSED.
THIS WORK IS COMPATIBLE IN
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT,
TEXTURE MATERIAL AND
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TO FIVE AND NINE AND
THE GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING
SITES ROOF WOOD WINDOWS,
ENTRANCES AND PORCHES AS WELL
AS THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR
ALL ROOFS, WOOD WINDOWS, DOORS
AND MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT.
>> THE SECOND MOTION WELL WE'LL
DO THE TEST THE FIRST ONE AND
THEN WE I THINK WE IF SOMEONE
WILL SECOND CONFIRM YES, OK
MOVE BY COMMISSIONER FOURNIER
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER ROSS.
YEAH I THINK AND THEN WE VOTE
ON IT AND THEN WE DO THE SEC IS
THAT A DECENT PROCESS.
OK CAN YOU READ BOTH MOTIONS
AND JUST FOR FUTURE REFERENCE
OR BOTH OF YOU CAN OK AND
YOU'RE NOT WORRIED ABOUT
CONFUSING.
>> YEAH IT JUST SOUNDS ESCUTIA
A LITTLE CONFUSING ANYWAY I
JUST WAS WONDERING IF YOU COULD
ACTUALLY DO THAT.
>> OK, LET'S JUST TALK ABOUT
THIS MOTION SO THIS MOTION
AGAIN IT'S EVERYTHING THAT'S
BEEN PROPOSED EXCEPT FOR EXCEPT
FOR MOVING THE WINDOWS WHICH I
DON'T KNOW HOW YOU WOULD DO
THAT WAS MY HOUSE.
YOU CAN'T EXTEND THE ROOF AND
DEAL WITH IMPACT.
>> SO WHAT ONE LEAVING THE
WINDOWS IT RIGHT.
I THINK THE REINSTALLING AS OK
THEY WOULD BE REMOVED AS PART
OF BENDING THE WALL IN THE ROOF
BUT IT'S THE REINSTALLATION ON
A DIFFERENT PART OF THE HOUSE.
>> THANKS FOR THAT
CLARIFICATION.
SO SO OK EVERYONE'S GOT THAT
NOW.
>> WELL IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION
ON THIS MOTION?
I'LL JUST WHILE YOU'RE THINKING
MAYBE I THINK THAT IT'S I THINK
IT'S REALLY GREAT TO SEE A
RENOVATION LIKE A FULL
RENOVATION LIKE THIS ON A HOUSE
THAT IS NOT PROPOSING ANY ANY
INCREASE IN THE FOOTPRINT YOU
IT'S PRETTY AMAZING WE DON'T
SEE A LOT OF THAT BUT IT'S JUST
REALLY NICE THAT THEY COULD GET
YOU EVERYTHING THEY WANTED AND
I'M SURE THEY MAYBE ARE TEMPTED
TO BUT OR MAYBE IT WAS JUST
PART OF THE YOU KNOW, HIGH
LEVEL CONCEPT OF THE PROJECT
HERE.
>> YOU KNOW, WE'RE JUST YOU
KNOW, STAYING WITHIN THE
FOOTPRINT EITHER WAY.
I THINK IT'S IT'S GREAT TO SEE
AND I GUESS I'LL JUST ADD THAT
,YOU KNOW, IN A TYPICAL
RENOVATION WHERE YOU WOULD BE
CHANGING THE FOOTPRINT, WE
OFTEN DO LOSE A COUPLE HISTORIC
WINDOWS AND AND THAT'S JUST
KIND OF WHAT HAPPENS ON THE
REAR OF THE HOUSE.
SO I GUESS THAT IS INCLUDED IN
THIS MOTION HERE IS WE WOULD
LOSE THOSE WINDOWS FOR THE TIME
BEING THOSE WINDOWS BEING
REMOVED SO THAT'S YEAH, THAT'S
THAT'S WHAT I'M THINKING AT THE
MOMENT.
>> ANY OTHER COMMENTS ON THIS
MOTION?
I'M MORE CONCERNED ABOUT THE
REMOVING OF THE WINDOWS BUT I
THINK THE STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
ISSUES TRUMP THAT AND OF COURSE
THEY'RE BACK WHERE THEY'RE NOT
SEEN EXCEPT IF YOU'RE STANDING
RIGHT IN A CERTAIN PART
OF BACKYARD OR GOOD.
COMMISSIONER ROSS, WHAT ARE
YOUR THOUGHTS ON THIS?
WELL, I MEAN I GUESS I'M NOT
SUPER HAPPY THAT THE WINDOWS
HAVE TO GO AND YOU KNOW, I
GUESS LIKE MY THOUGHTS ARE
STILL KIND OF TIED TO THEIR
REINSTALLATION AND NOT ONLY
REINSTALLING THEM BUT LOSING
THE FLOOR CASEMENT WINDOWS.
OBVIOUSLY WE'RE GOING TO DEAL
WITH THAT IN THE NEXT MOTION.
BUT IF IT WAS JUST LIKE OH,
WE'RE JUST GOING TO DO THIS AND
THE OTHER FOUR CASEMENT'S AS IS
THAT THEN I'D PROBABLY BE MORE
LIKE OK, WELL NO BUT YEAH ARE
THE FOUR CASEMENT'S ARE WE
DON'T KNOW EXACTLY WHEN THEY
ARE IS THAT RIGHT BECAUSE WE
DON'T KNOW WHEN THE PORCH WAS
FILLED.
>> YEAH.
SO THAT WE JUST DOUBLE CHECK
THE NINETEEN FORTY EIGHT
SANDBORN MAP SHOWS THAT THE
PORCH WAS ENCLOSED SO I GUESS
THE QUESTION IS WAS IT BETWEEN
NINETEEN FORTY FIVE IN NINETEEN
FORTY EIGHT AND THAT'S A LITTLE
I MEAN TO ME THAT'S THAT'S
SLICING HAIRS A LITTLE BIT I
MEAN THOSE WINDOWS TO ME LOOK
TO BE YEAH.
DAVID DO YOU NOT RECOGNIZE LET
ME JUST FINISH THE COMMENTS AND
THEN I WILL HAVE YOU BACK UP
BILL BUT LET'S JUST BUT I MEAN
WE CAN DEAL WITH I FEEL LIKE WE
CAN DEAL WITH THE FIRST MOTION
AND WELL THE FIRST MOTION
INCLUDES REMOVING REMOVING
THOSE.
YEP.
I GET THE WINDOWS OK WAIT NO
I'M SORRY I THOUGHT IT WAS JUST
REMOVING TWO WINDOWS.
>> WELL YES OK REMOVING THE TWO
WINDOWS THAT ARE REAR FACING.
>> YES I SUPPOSE IT'S A LITTLE
CONFUSING BECAUSE THAT IT'S NOT
PROPOSED IN THIS SORT OF YOU
KNOW WAY BUT IT'S THE WAY IT'S
DRAWN.
>> YEAH.
IF YOU LOOK AT THAT RIGHT THE
WALL INTERSECTS WITH WHERE
THOSE TWO WINDOWS ONE AND THE
DOUBLE HOMES.
>> YES.
I THINK THAT THE CONCERN THOUGH
OF THE CASEMENT'S BUT THIS THIS
MOTION DID NOT DEAL WITH
CASEMAN.
YES, I GOT IT FROM WHAT I
UNDERSTAND IS JUST ON IT.
YEAH.
SECOND MOTION WILL DEAL WITH
THE CASEMENT'S.
>> YEAH, WELL THAT'S HELPFUL.
>> WHOEVER WROTE THAT MOTION
REALLY KNEW WHAT ROAD WE WERE
WALKING DOWN SO THANKS FOR THAT
.
OK SO THEN IN TERMS
OF EVERYTHING ELSE IN THE
MOTION IT SOUNDS LIKE I'M NOT
HEARING ANY ANY COMMENTS HERE
OR ANY FURTHER COMMENTS SO
LET'S GO WELL BEFORE WE VOTE
LET'S HEAR FROM FROM BILL COME
UP TO THE PODIUM PLEASE.
YOU JUST HAVE A QUICK COMMENT.
WE'LL WE'LL ALLOW IT TO THE
ROOM WHERE THE TWO THERE'S TWO
WINDOWS ON THE SOUTH SIDE AND
TWO WINDOWS ONLY SIDE THAT IS
BEING USED AS A BEDROOM RIGHT
NOW.
SO THERE ARE NOT I DON'T KNOW
THAT THOSE WINDOWS QUALIFY FOR
EGRESS WINDOWS BUT THE TWO
WINDOWS THAT ARE IN THE STUDY
IF THEY WERE PUT ON THE SOUTH
SIDE WOULD QUALIFY AS EGRESS
WINDOWS, OK AND STAY WITH THE
STILL THE SAME WINDOWS STYLE.
I MEAN THEY ARE THE WINDOWS
THAT WERE THERE.
WE WOULD LIKE TO INSTALL THEM.
I LIKE TO KEEP THEM.
>> THAT ACTUALLY IS A GOOD
COMMENT.
HELPFUL COMMENT I SHOULD SAY
ABOUT THE EGRESS.
SO WE APPRECIATE THAT.
THANK BILL.
THAT'S MORE FOR THE NEXT
MOTION.
I THINK.
>> BUT IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION
ON HEARING THAT OR WE'RE STILL
READY TO VOTE?
OK, LET'S VOTE ON THE MOTION
THEN ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY YES.
>> YES, ALL THOSE OPPOSED
PLEASE SAY NO.
OK, SO THAT
FIRST MOTION
CARRIES WE NOW HAVE ANOTHER
MOTION TO READ
SO THAT PART
OF THE APPLICATION HAS BEEN
APPROVED.
>> LET'S LET'S HEAR THE NEXT
MOTION I MOVE THAT THE
COMMISSION ISSUE THE
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
FOR THE APPLICATION AT SIX OR
NINE SECONDS ST. A CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO REMOVE TWO
HISTORIC WINDOWS ON THE EAST
ELEVATION AND REINSTALL THEM ON
THE SOUTH ELEVATION IN PLACE
OF TWO CASEMENT WINDOWS A
SIMPLE TRIM AND TO REMOVE TWO
CASEMENT WINDOWS ON THE EAST
ELEVATION AND REPLACE THEM WITH
THREE WOOD CLAD WINDOWS IN THE
SAME LOCATION AS PROPOSED.
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE IN
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TO FIVE TO NINE AND
THE GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING
SITE ROOFS, WOOD WINDOWS,
ENTRANCES AND PORCHES AS WELL
AS THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR
ALL WAS WOOD WINDOWS, DOORS AND
MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT.
ANYONE INTERESTED IN SECOND
SECOND?
OK, THANK YOU.
THAT WAS MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
FORTNER SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER ROSS.
>> SO NOW WE CAN DISCUSS THIS
ONE.
CAN WE SEE A FLOOR PLAN TO
PROPOSE FLOOR PLAN OF THAT ROOM
THAT COULD BE A DECENT PLACE TO
START HERE.
>> JUST SEE WE JUST LEARNED
THAT OK, RELOCATE.
SO WE JUST LEARNED FROM BILL
THAT, YOU KNOW, THERE IS A
REQUIREMENT THERE WILL BE A
REQUIREMENT FOR EGRESS IN THAT
BEDROOM BECAUSE IT'S THIS IS
LIKE NEW YOU KNOW, IT'S A I SEE
ORANGE WALL THERE.
THAT MEANS IT'S LIKE A NEW ROOM
AND SO THIS CITY WILL REQUIRE
EGRESS SO SO THEN WE LEARNED
THAT YOU KNOW HOW THEY'RE
ACHIEVING EGRESS IN THAT
BEDROOM IS THROUGH THOSE TWO
WINDOWS.
>> YEAH, I MEAN I JUST THINK
THAT THE THE ARGUMENT FROM THE
PROPOSAL IS THAT IT'S REALLY AN
ESTHETIC THING WHERE YOU HAVE
THAT TYPE OF WINDOW KIND
OF MARCHING AROUND THE HOUSE IN
A WAY SO THOSE WINDOWS, EVEN
THOUGH THEY'RE ON THE REAR
OF THE HOUSE NOW THE PROPOSAL
SHOWS THEM ON THE SIDE BECAUSE
THAT'S JUST ESTHETICALLY WHERE
THEY BELONG.
I THINK HISTORICALLY NOW WE
HAVE A DIFFERENT SITUATION.
WE JUST LEARNED THAT THE
NINETEEN FORTY EIGHT SANDBORN
SHOWS YOU SOMETHING THERE AND
SO YOU KNOW THE HISTORIC
DECISION WAS TO PUT CASEMENT'S
IN THERE.
YOU KNOW I CAN'T REALLY SEE
ROTATING YOU KNOW IF YOU PUT
THE EGRESS ON THAT BACK YOU'D
HAVE TO ROTATE THE ROOM AROUND
AND IT DOESN'T REALLY LOOK LIKE
IT'S GOING TO FIT BECAUSE IT'S
YOU KNOW LONGER ONE WAY AND THE
OTHER.
>> SO THAT WAS JUST NEAT TO
HAND IT OVER TO YOU,
COMMISSIONER ROSS AND HEAR WHAT
YOU THINK.
ALL RIGHT.
SO I MEAN YES, I MEAN SO I GET
THE KIND OF DESIRE TO WELL, OK.
I GUESS ASIDE FROM THE EGRESS
PIECE BUT THE ESTHETIC KIND
OF DESIRE TO KIND OF MAKE THE
WINDOWS MORE UNIFORM WITH THE
REST OF THE HOUSE BUT THE
CASEMENT WINDOWS KIND OF MARKED
THAT DEVELOPMENT OF THE HOUSE
YOU THE MOVEMENT FROM THE OPEN
PORCH INTO CLOSING IT.
SO IT KIND OF SITS THERE
TELLING THAT HISTORY.
SO I MEAN IF IF THERE IS A HEY
,THIS IS A CODE REQUIRED THING
BUT THAT JUST SPEAKS TO THE
WINDOWS ON THE SIDE, NOT THE
ONES THAT THE HOPKINS WANTS TO
REPLACE WITH READERS.
WELL, WITH NEW WINDOWS.
ALL RIGHT.
SO I CERTAINLY HAVE AN ISSUE
WITH THE ONES ON THE BACK LIKE
THAT'S NOT REQUIRED BY CODE .
THAT'S NOT I MEAN THEY'RE NOT
EVEN COMING BACK WITH WINDOWS
THAT ARE MATCHING THE SIX OLDER
ONES.
SO THAT CERTAINLY DOESN'T MEET
THE STANDARDS IN MY OPINION.
SO THAT'S SOMETHING THAT I
WOULD SAY NO AND I WOULD ONLY
KIND GIVE ON THE WINDOWS ON THE
SIDE PRIMARILY BECAUSE WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT IT'S A
CODE REQUIRED SITUATION BUT I
DON'T EVEN THINK I MEAN TO ME
THAT DOESN'T MEET THE STANDARDS
EITHER.
BUT THAT'S KIND OF WHERE I'M
FALLING
.
DO WE KNOW THAT THOSE ARE NOT
TO CODE THOSE WINDOWS?
>> I MEAN I HAVE A HARD TIME
GETTING OUT THERE.
THEY'RE NOT YEAH.
I MEAN LET'S LET'S HAVE THE
APPLICANT COME BACK UP.
CAN YOU JUST CONFIRM THAT THOSE
CASEMENT WINDOWS THERE'S TWO
QUESTIONS ON THE TABLE I THINK
CAN YOU PLEASE CONFIRM THAT THE
CASE IN WINDOWS ARE NOT GOING
TO MEET EGRESS AND THEN ALSO
LET US KNOW WE HAVE HISTORIC
WINDOWS ON THE REAR OF THAT
BEDROOM YOU'RE PROPOSING
REPLACE THEM REPLACE THEM WITH
NEW I'VE HEARD FROM THE OWNERS
THAT THEY REALLY LOVE THEIR
HISTORIC WINDOWS.
>> SO ANSWER THOSE TWO
QUESTIONS PLEASE.
SO THE CASEMENT WINDOWS DO NOT
MEET EGRESSED BECAUSE OF THEIR
HEIGHT OFF OF THE FLOOR AND THE
WINDOWS THAT DO ARE THE
EXISTING HISTORIC THAT ARE
CURRENTLY IN THE BACK AND WE
CERTAINLY DON'T WANT TO THROW
THEM OUT.
WE WANT TO BRING THEM OVER TO
THE SIDE WHICH WHEN WE LOOK AT
THE CIRCULATION OF THE ROOM
BOTH FOR SAFETY AND AGING IN
PLACE, THIS GIVES US THE BEST
CIRCULATION FROM AN ENTRANCE TO
THE BED AND THEN TO THE CLOSET
AND BACK OUT.
WE DON'T WE'RE NOT STUFFING
EVERYTHING ON ONE SIDE WHICH WE
WOULD HAVE TO DO IF THOSE
EGRESS WINDOWS WERE ON THE BACK
SIDE OF THE ROOM.
CLARE AND SO WE HAVE THE EGRESS
WINDOWS, NEW EGRESS WINDOWS ON
THE BACK TRYING TO KEEP WITHIN
THE SAME VERNACULAR OF THE
HISTORIC WINDOWS.
BUT WE DO HAVE OTHER WE DO HAVE
EXISTING CASEMENT WINDOWS THAT
WE COULD PULL OUT AND PUT IN
THAT EXACT LOCATION IF YOU WANT
TO HAVE WHERE WE'RE SHOWING ON
THAT PLAN THE THREE THE THREE
WINDOWS THERE ARE THREE KNU
CASEMENT WINDOWS THAT ARE
REPLACING TWO EXISTING CASEMENT
WINDOWS RIGHT ON THE BACK SIDE
OF THAT THERE'S ACTUALLY FOUR
CASEMENT WINDOWS IN THAT ROOM,
ONE ON THE BACK ROW OR TWO ON
THE BACK WALL, TWO ON THE
SIDEWALK.
BUT FOR EFFICIENCY WE AND IT'S
ON THE BACK WALL WE WERE HOPING
TO GET NEW WINDOWS THAT FOR
THAT AREA OK, WELL WAS THAT
CLEAR NOW?
BUT WHAT I HEARD WAS THEY DON'T
WANT IT BUT THEY'VE HEARD WHAT
WE'RE SAYING.
BUT THAT PROPOSAL'S NOT
CHANGING.
>> OK, WHAT YOU SEE THERE IS IS
WHAT IS STILL BEING PROPOSED.
I THINK WHAT WE'RE HEARING FROM
THE COMMISSION IS THAT THE REAR
WINDOWS, THE REAR, THE CASEMENT
WINDOWS THAT ARE FACING EAST
AND THAT WOULD BE NICE IF YOU
COULD KEEP THOSE SINCE WE DON'T
SEE I GUESS THE REASON TO
REMOVE THEM THEY'RE THEY'RE
WINDOWS.
OK, WELL WE DON'T WE DON'T KNOW
IF THEY'RE ORIGINAL TO THE
HOUSE.
WELL, WE JUST HEARD INFORMATION
IT'S NOT ABOUT ORIGINAL.
IT'S WHETHER OR NOT THEY WERE
WITHIN PRE NINETEEN FORTY FIVE.
SO SO THAT'S WHAT THE
DETERMINATION IS WHETHER OR NOT
YOU NEED TO KEEP THEM AND IT'S
IT'S ACTUALLY A GRAY AREA.
IT'S WE WE HAVE THE NINETEEN
FORTY EIGHT SANDBORN THAT SAYS
THAT THAT THAT THAT'S WHERE
THEY WERE.
SO YOU KNOW WE DO HAVE YEARS
OF WIGGLE ROOM THAT SAYS THAT
THOSE WERE PUT IN IN NINETEEN
FORTY FIVE, SIX OR SEVEN YOU
KNOW.
YEAH.
SO OUR PRIORITY REQUEST ARE THE
EGRESS WINDOWS THE DOUBLE TO BE
ON THE S ELEVATION THAT'S OUR
PRIORITY REQUEST.
OK CLEAR AND THEN JUST TELL ME
ABOUT THE WINDOWS A LITTLE MORE
LIKE HOW ARE THEY.
>> OH THEY'RE HAVE YOU BEEN TO
WATERLOO AND STADIUM ONE OF THE
CABINS THERE LIKE THOSE WINDOWS
ARE THEY DETERIORATED AND
ROTTEN ARE THEY JUST I MEAN
TELL US A LITTLE JUST ALL
AROUND THE ENTIRE HOUSE
REPLACING OR NOT REPLACING
RESTORING ALL OF OUR SIX OVER
ONE WINDOWS THOSE TWO WINDOWS
THAT ARE IN MY OFFICE WHICH ARE
THERE ARE MORE LIKE WAITING.
THOSE ARE THE ONES WE WOULD
LIKE TO MOVE RIGHT.
THERE WAS A MAN WHEN I FIRST
MOVED THERE DRIVER WHAT'S HIS
LAST NAME IF ANYBODY REMEMBERS
HE CAN DRIVE OR SOMETHING.
CLINT DRIVER YES.
WHEN HE CAME TO MY HOUSE LIKE
HE CAME WHEN WE WERE BUYING IT
IN THE NINETIES AND HE WENT
THROUGH AND THOSE PARTICULAR
WINDOWS IN THE OFFICE HE WAS
LIKE WOW THESE ARE THE OLDEST
WINDOWS IN YOUR HOUSE RIGHT NOW
LIKE A LOT OF THEM ARE OLD BUT
THESE ARE TRULY ORIGINAL THOSE
TWO IN THE OFFICE.
SO I'M LIKE OK, I REMEMBER THAT
AND THEN THERE WE JUST LIKE
THEM.
I MEAN THEY'RE OLD, THEY'RE
BEAUTIFUL.
THE MAN WHO WE HAVE RESTORING
THE OTHER ONES HAS DONE A
PHENOMENAL JOB.
YOU JUST LOOK AT THEM.
THEY'RE GORGEOUS ALL AROUND THE
HOUSE THE ORIGINAL PORTION
OF THE HOUSE, THE ORIGINAL
SQUA LITTLE BOX OF THE HOUSE
IS FIVE.
WHEN THEY ADDED THE BEDROOMS WE
HAD FLAT ROOF AND ISSUED LIKE
EVERY ADDITION TO THIS HOUSE
HAS COST PROBLEMS IN THE
KITCHEN OUT AND ON CAUSED THE
PROBLEM THE BATHROOM OFF THE
DINING ROOM IS WHERE ALL THE
WEIRD STAIRWAY IS AND HAS ALL
OF THAT'S A PROBLEM.
I APPRECIATE ALL THAT.
IF YOU HAVE ANYTHING ELSE TO
SAY ABOUT THE BASEMENT, THE
BASEMENT WINDOWS THAT YOU'RE
LOOKING TO REPLACE IT NEED TO
BE REPLACED.
OK AND THEY HAVE LIKE A WOOD
FRAMING ON THEM AND THEY I MEAN
IT'S NOT A I MEAN WE'RE IT
DOESN'T HAVE A FOUNDATION
UNDERNEATH.
>> WE'RE PUTTING A FOUNDATION
UNDERNEATH THAT ROOM.
OK, VERY GOOD.
THANK VICKY.
APPRECIATE THAT.
THANK YOU.
YEAH I APPRECIATE THAT AS WELL
.
>> THAT'S HELPFUL.
EXTRA COMMENTS
.
>> OK SO THE PROPOSAL STANDS IT
AS IS WE COULD SPLIT THE MOTION
ONE MORE TIME.
I MEAN IT SOUNDS LIKE THERE'S A
SORT OF YEAH THAT JUST SOUNDS
LIKE LIKE ALMOST WHAT I'VE
HEARD IS THAT THE I IS THIS WE
GOT NORTH YEAH.
OK SO THE THE SOUTH FACING
WINDOWS TO THE RIGHT ARE OUR
FOR EGRESS THEY'RE THERE.
>> YEAH IT JUST SOUNDS LIKE
THOSE SO I'M NOT HERE I CAN
TAKE THEM OUT WE KNOW THEY'RE
GOING TO HAVE TO PUT AN EGRESS
WINDOW IN THERE RIGHT.
>> RIGHT.
SO SO I'M GOING TO PUT THE ONES
THEY JUST TOOK OUT.
>> YEAH I'M I'M COOL WITH THAT
.
>> I MEAN SO I GUESS THE
QUESTION IS I MEAN NOT THAT I
MEAN WE CAN GO WITH THE MOTION
TO SEE WHAT PEOPLE SAY BUT I
MEAN LIKE I SAID, I'M JUST
REITERATING UNLESS THE
APPLICANT PROVIDES LIKE SOME
SORT OF DOCUMENTATION PHOTO
DOCUMENTATION, THE WINDOWS ARE
DETERIORATED BEYOND REPAIR ON
THAT BACK WALL DOESN'T
STANDARDS IN MY OPINION.
I MEAN COULD WE APPROVE THIS
WITH A CONDITION THAT THOSE
THREE WINDOWS ON THE REAR
REMAIN TO WINDOWS TO WINDOWS?
>> YEAH.
I'M SORRY.
YEAH.
OR WE COULD CHANGE THE MOTION
SO THAT IT DOESN'T INCLUDE
THOSE IN THEN WE COULD DO
ANOTHER MOTION OR SOMETHING
THAT JUST INCLUDES THOSE BUT OK
YEAH I THINK THAT I WOULD JUST
LIKE AS STAFF LIKE IT.
DID YOU DO YOU HAVE ANY
INFORMATION ON THESE E FACING
WINDOWS THE KASEMAN WINDOWS.
>> CAN WE JUST LOOK AT A PHOTO
REAL QUICK.
I THINK I CAN PULL UP A PHOTO
AND IN TERMS OF THEIR CONDITION
AND I DON'T KNOW BUT I MEAN WE
KNOW THERE WOULD YEAH BUT LET
ME SEE IF I CAN FIND A PHOTO.
SURE.
IT'S CAN I ASK A QUESTION
OF THE APPLICANT?
OF COURSE WHEN YOU YOU SAID YOU
HAVE THE OTHER WINDOWS RESTORED
OR MANY OF THE OTHER WINDOWS
STORED I MEAN WE'RE IN THE
WORK.
>> YEAH THOSE ARE THE WINDOWS
THE GLASS TWO THEY JUST
FINISHED IN THE PAST AND THEY
STARTED IN JAN WE SO HAVE THOSE
BEEN EVALUATED BY THE PERSON
WHO'S DOING THE RESTORATION?
I MEAN HE WAS READY TO TAKE
THEM AND GO RESTORE THEM BUT
THEY BECAUSE IT'S I MEAN THE
OLD THE PAST IS LIKE FALLING
OUT.
WE HAVE AN OUTSIDE WINDOW
PROTECTING HIM BUT YEAH THEY
THEY REPAIR ALL OF THE WOOD.
>> WHICH WINDOWS ARE YOU
TALKING ABOUT?
THE TWO CASEMENT WINDOWS ON THE
WINDOWS DEVALUATED.
YES WINDOWS NO BECAUSE THAT'S
IT THAT'S WHAT WE'RE TRYING TO
DO.
ARE THOSE WINDOWS DO YOU HAVE
ANY DOCUMENTATION THAT SHOWS
THAT THOSE WINDOWS ARE BEYOND
REPAIR?
>> IS THAT RIGHT THERE?
I MEAN SINCE I WAS INCLUDED IN
THE EXHIBITION THAT'S THE
WINDOW FROM THE INSIDE IT LOOKS
PRETTY GOOD AND OUTSIDE THEY
HAVE METAL SCREEN METAL STORM
THOSE ARE THE CASEMENT'S IN THE
INFILL ON THE PORCH.
>> YEAH.
OKAY SO OK WELL LET'S LET'S
JUST SPLIT THIS MOTION UP AGAIN
AND JUST VOTE ON THE OK TAKE
TAKE THE CASEMENT'S OUT OF THE
MOTION.
LET'S VOTE OR WE OR YOU CAN
REWORD I JUST YEAH
YEAH.
SO DO IT SO THAT MOTION HAS
BEEN MADE AND SECONDED RIGHT.
>> WE CAN AMEND IT SO WE CAN
TAKE OUT TO TAKE OUT FROM AND
TO REMOVE TWO CASEMENT WINDOWS
ON THE E ELEVATION AND REPLACE
THEM WITH THREE WOOD CLIP
WINDOWS.
>> YEAH SAME OK SO WE'RE
STRIKING THAT PART OF THE
MOTION OK SO WE'RE JUST GOING
TO VOTE ON OK UM I HAVE A
SUGGESTION WHAT'S GOING ON G
HELP SO YOU CAN SEE IN THAT
PICTURE WE HAVE THERE'S
ACTUALLY FOUR PANELS AND WE'RE
PROPOSING A THREE PANEL
APPROACH ON THE BACK WOULD BE
ACCEPTABLE IF WE SALVAGED ALL
THOSE WINDOWS AS WELL AND PUT
THEM IN A A THREE GAME
PLACEMENT ON THAT BACK WALL AND
SO THERE'S NO NEW WINDOWS BUT
WE'RE WORKING WITH ALL OF THE
EXISTING WINDOWS.
>> OK, SO WE'VE GOT A NEW
PROPOSAL.
THANK YOU, JEFF.
>> OK, LET'S JUST TALK ABOUT
THAT FOR A SECOND BECAUSE IT'S
INTERESTING BUT IT IT'S IT'S
NOT THAT DOESN'T MEET THE
STANDARDS EITHER BUT IT'S AN
INTERESTING PROPOSAL.
I THINK IT'S BETTER THAN THE
FIRST PROPOSAL.
I THINK I'LL JUST REITERATE
THAT THE IF THEY WERE PUTTING
AN ADDITION ON THE BACK OF THE
HOUSE WHICH THEY'RE NOT BUT IF
THEY WERE WE'D BE OK PROBABLY
PUTTING THOSE WINDOWS IN THE
LANDFILL.
UNFORTUNATELY.
SO NOW WE'RE ACTUALLY SAVING
THREE OF THEM INSTEAD ZERO.
SO ANYWAY, I'M I'M DEBATING
THAT AND I ASSUME THAT THAT'S
IT DOESN'T MEET THE STANDARDS
FOR YOU, NOT MINE.
>> YEAH, BUT JUST MY BRIEF IT'S
CLEAR THAT IT DOESN'T MEET THE
STANDARDS BUT IT'S YOU KNOW A
LOT OF TIMES THAT YEAH WHAT
YOU'RE DOING DOESN'T MEET THE
STANDARDS BUT THE OVERALL
PROJECT IS IS SORT OF MEETING
IT.
>> YEAH.
SO I MEAN I DO APPRECIATE THAT,
YOU KNOW HEY BUT YOU KNOW LET'S
COMPROMISE AND LET'S USE ONE
OF CASEMENT'S FROM THE SIDE
THAT THAT ARE GOING TO BE
THAT'S GOING TO BE THROWN THE
LANDFILL IN THAT HERE.
BUT OK, SO WE HAVE TO MOVE
FORWARD.
>> SO LET'S LET'S OK SO WE
COULD WE WEREN'T GOING TO
CHANGE THE MOTION THAT'S SORT
OF KICKING THE CAN DOWN THE
ROAD BUT AT LEAST WE WILL MOVE
FORWARD.
SO LET'S LET'S AT LEAST VOTE ON
THAT MOTION.
WELL THEN I'LL HAVE TO READ A
WHOLE NEW MOTION AND THAT COULD
BE TRICKY.
>> SO WELL WHAT'S SO SO WE
COULD AMANDOLA AMENDMENT SO
THAT AFTER WE GET DONE WITH THE
TWO CASEMENT WINDOWS WE'LL HOLD
ON A SECOND.
>> LET ME LET ME JUST ASK
WHAT'S GOING ON HERE?
SO THAT'S THE PROPOSAL ON THE
TABLE.
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT ON THAT?
LIKE HOW DO YOU WHERE DO YOU
STAND ON THAT?
>> I MEAN I WOULD YOU WOULD
SUPPORT THAT OK, THE THREE THE
THREE YES.
THE BAD YEAH.
YEAH.
I'M ALSO IN FAVOR OF SUPPORTING
THAT I YOU KNOW YOU SORT
OF THINKING THAT OK SO LET'S
JUST AMEND THE MOTION TO THAT
THAT THE THE THE THE PROPOSAL
ON THE TABLE AND WE CAN HAVE A
DISCUSSION AND WE CAN VOTE OK
SO WE COULD AMEND THIS MOTION
SO THAT AFTER WE DEAL WITH THE
THE PLACEMENT OF THE TWO
CASEMENT WINDOWS ON THE SOUTH
ELEVATION WITH SIMPLE TRIM IT
WILL SAY AND TO LET'S SEE HOW
WE WANT TO SAY THIS AND I'M I'M
SORRY TO INTERRUPT BUT YEAH,
SINCE THIS IS JUST KIND
OF VERBALLY THROWN OUT LIKE I'M
STILL STRUGGLING TO UNDERSTAND
HOW THIS THIRD WINDOW SO THE
TWO ARE GOING TO STAY IN PLACE
AND THEN THEY'RE ALL JUST GOING
TO BE GOING TO SLIDE OVER A
LITTLE BIT AND THEN THE OTHER
ONE PLACE NEXT TO IT.
>> SO THE THREE WINDOWS WILL BE
CENTERED ON THE WALL JUST A I
CAN PULL UP THE ELEVATION.
I KNOW.
OK, I WAS TRYING TO FIGURE OUT
HOW IT'S GOING TO HAPPEN.
I MEAN IN ESSENCE IT'S LIKE
REMOVING ALL THE WINDOWS,
PUTTING THREE OF THEM BACK IN A
NEW LOCATION ON THAT EAST WALL.
>> SO IT'S SO NEW ORLEANS
CASING
OK, YEAH I'M STILL SO OK
AND AND USE ONE OF THE YOU JUST
USE THE THREE EXISTING KEYS
FROM THE S.
S ELEVATION WITH THE EXISTING
TO CASEMENT WINDOWS ON THE
SOUTH.
OH NO WAIT A MINUTE.
SO IT'S ON THE EAST WE'RE GOING
TO USE ONE OF THE CASEMENT'S
FROM THE EAST SIDE ON THE SOUTH
SIDE ALL THE WAY AROUND SORRY
SOUTH SIDE TO THE EAST.
OK, SO AND USE ONE OF THE
CASEMENT'S FROM THE SOUTH SIDE
WITH THE EXISTING TWO
CASEMENT'S ON THE EAST SIDE
CENTERED YES.
>> INSTALL THIS AS SHOWN ON THE
SHOW.
>> YEAH YOU CAN GET THAT.
YEAH SO THAT'S WHAT WE'RE
VOTING.
>> OK VERY GOOD.
ANY ANY DISCUSSION ON THAT ONE
ARE WE CLEAR ANY COMMENTS.
>> OK ALL RIGHT SO WE WILL VOTE
ON THAT ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
OF THAT MOTION PLEASE SAY YES.
>> YES ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE
SAY NO.
OK SORRY IT WAS THREE YESES ONE
THE MOTION CARRIES THAT PART
OF THE APPLICATION HAS ALSO
BEEN APPROVED.
SO THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU.
YEAH THANK YOU
.
YOU SUPPORTED THAT SECOND
MOTION THE THREE OF US
SUPPORTED IT AND EXARO WHO
SECONDED IT THERE WASN'T ONE
ACTION SO THE SECOND MOTION I
DON'T KNOW IF WE SECONDED IT.
NO THERE WASN'T I DON'T
REMEMBER I HAD COMMISSIONER
SECOND IN MIND I THINK YEAH.
>> THAT BOTH OF THEM OK.
OH THAT'S RIGHT BECAUSE I FEEL
WE BOTH DID IT ALMOST AT THE
SAME TIME.
>> YES THAT'S RIGHT.
OK YEAH WE HAD SO MANY MOTIONS
OK DENHA THE MOTIONS OK.
OH GOOD YEAH OK ALL RIGHT SO
NOW WE WILL THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
NOW WE'LL MOVE ON TO ANOTHER
STAFF REPORT HERE.
WE'RE UP TO FIVE THAT'S SIX
THIRTY S ASHLEY STREET, MISS
THATCHER THE STAFF REPORT
WHENEVER YOU'RE READY VACANT
LOT IS THE FORMER SITE
OF AHMANN CLEANERS.
THIS IT'S A IT'S A FAIRLY WIDE
LOT.
IT AT ONE POINT HAD A HOUSE ON
THE CORNER AND THEN A BUILDING
WAS BUILT NEXT TO THIS GRAY
HOUSE THAT YOU SEE HERE.
IT EVOLVED THROUGH SEVERAL
BUSINESS HOUSES, EVENTUALLY
BECAME URBAN CLEANERS AND THEN
AT SOME POINT I THINK IN THE
FORTIES IT WAS DOUBLED IN WIDTH
AND THE HOUSE ON THE CORNER WAS
TORN DOWN DURING THE NINETEEN
SORRY THE 2007 RESURVEY OF THE
OLDEST HISTORIC DISTRICT, IT
WAS DETERMINED THAT THAT
BUILDING HAS LOST ITS INTEGRITY
DUE TO THESE ALTERATIONS AND IN
2021 THE HDC ISSUED CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS TO TEAR IT
DOWN.
THERE WAS A MASSIVE REMEDIATION
ON THE SITE BECAUSE OF GROUND
CONTAMINATION FROM THE DRY
CLEANER USE THAT'S ALL BEEN
COMPLETED.
IT'S BEEN FILLED BACK IN AND
NOW WE HAVE A LOVELY VACANT LOT
IN THE OLD WEST SIDE.
SO THIS PROPOSAL IS TO
CONSTRUCT A DUPLEX WITH AN
ATTACHED GARAGE PLUS A DETACHED
GARAGE WITH AN ACCESSORY
DWELLING UNIT UPSTAIRS.
THERE'S NOT MUCH TO SHOW HERE.
I'VE GOT THIS PHOTO FROM WEST
MOSLEY FIRST ONE OF THE FRONT
AND THEN THIS ONE FROM THE
CORNER OF WEST MOSTLY AND SOUTH
ASHLEY, IF YOU LOOK AT THE
STAFF REPORT OLD PHOTOS IF
YOU'RE INTERESTED.
I DIDN'T INCLUDE THEM HERE SO
THE PROPOSAL IS TO CONSTRUCT
TWO UNITS THIS THERE THEY'RE
EACH THREE STORIES.
THIS ONE IS CALLED UNIT B ON NW
.
THIS ONE IS CALLED UNIT A AND
THEY'RE CONNECTED BY A SINGLE
STOREY GARAGE IN THE MIDDLE AND
THEN IN THE BACK THERE'S A
DETACHED GARAGE WITH AN
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT ON THE
SECOND FLOOR YOU CAN SEE THAT
THERE ARE TWO CURB CUTS ONE ON
EACH STREET, ONE FOR EACH
GARAGE.
LET'S SEE LET YOU GO DOWN THERE
ARE THERE THE TAN AREAS ARE
ROOF DECKS, POTENTIAL ROOF
DECKS FOR THE THIRD FLOORS
OF THESE BUILDINGS.
THE THIRD FLOORS ARE NOT AS
LARGE AS THE FOOTPRINTS OF THE
BUILDINGS.
I TALK ABOUT THEM LIKE THERE
ARE TWO SEPARATE HOUSES JUST
SORT OF THE APPEARANCE IS THAT
THEY LOOK LIKE TWO TO FOUR
HOUSES WITH A GARAGE CONNECTING
THEM IN THE MIDDLE.
TECHNICALLY THEY'RE A DUPLEX.
WE SEE EACH OF THESE HAS EGRESS
WINDOWS.
IT'S A UNIT A WHICH IS THE S
UNIT HAS ONE THAT IS ALONG W
MOSELY STREET WHICH IS SORT
OF AN UNUSUAL PLACEMENT FOR AN
EGRESS WINDOW.
BUT IF YOU THINK ABOUT HOW WE
REGULATE EGRESS WINDOW WELLS,
IT'S ALL ABOUT HOW TO ADD THEM
TO EXISTING HISTORIC
STRUCTURES.
IT DOESN'T ADDRESS BRAND NEW
CONSTRUCTION.
WE'RE JUST LOOKING AT THIS TO
SEE IF IT'S COMPATIBLE WITH THE
SURROUNDING HISTORIC DISTRICT
AND MATERIALS MASSING IN HEIGHT
AND FEEL AND TEXTURE AND ALL
OF THOSE THINGS.
SO I DON'T THINK THAT STRICT
APPLICATION OF THAT, YOU KNOW,
FORCING THE OTHER SIDE OR
SOMETHING WOULD WOULD WOULD
MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN MY AT
LEAST EVALUATION OF THIS
AGAINST THE STANDARDS AND
GUIDELINES.
OH, THERE'S ACTUALLY WHAT IT
LOOKS LIKE HERE TOO.
THERE'S THERE'S ONE THAT I HAD
MISSED ON S ASHLEIGH.
SO WE'VE GOT TWO IN THE FRONT
YARD OF THIS UNIT AND THEN THIS
UNIT B HAS ONE ON EITHER SIDE.
OK, FIRST FLOOR FLOORPLAN UNIT
HERE THEY'RE ACTUALLY IT'S NOT
MAYBE IT'S JUST NOT THE OTHER
ONE EITHER.
IT'S NOT SHOWN.
NO, YOU'RE RIGHT.
YEAH.
I'M NOT SURE WHERE IT WENT BUT
YEAH THERE WILL BE A WELL THERE
IF THE BASEMENT PLAN WAS
ACCURATE SO THE MAIN ENTRANCE
TO UNIT A WHICH IS THE SOUTHERN
UNIT IS IS OFF OF WEST MOSTLY
STREET IT HAS A STOOP HERE AND
SMALL TRELLIS DETAIL OVER THE
ENTRY SHALLOW DETAIL RATHER
ALONGSIDE THE THE WELL THERE
ARE A FEW WINDOWS ALONG THE
FRONT AND THEN THIS UNIT B HAS
LITTLE MORE TRADITIONAL PORCH
LOOK OFF OF SOUTH ESHLEY STREET
BOTH HAVE REAR DOORS WITH WITH
POURED CONCRETE PATIOS AND
TRELLISES OVER THE TOP.
THIS ONE HAS A PERSON DOOR
GOING INTO THE GARAGE.
THE LADY WHO IS ACCESSED ALONG
THE WEST SIDE OF THE DETACHED
GARAGE THIS SLOPES DOWN A
LITTLE BIT.
IT HAS A RECESSED ENTRY RIGHT
HERE TO THE DOOR AND THEN
STAIRS GOING UP TO THE
ACCESSORY DOING IT HERE IS THE
SECOND FLOOR PLAN.
YOU SEE LOTS OF BEDROOMS, SOME
POPPED OUT BOXY WINDOWS OF A
SORT AND THIRD FLOORS ON UNITS
AND B ARE LIKE I SAID, PARTIAL.
THEY DON'T COVER THE WHOLE
FOOTPRINT AND EACH HAS
COMPOSITE DECKING THE THE LET
ME GET MY LIST OF MATERIALS.
SO ON THE STREET FACING
ELEVATIONS THERE'S BRICK VENEER
CLADDING AND THE OTHER
ELEVATIONS LIKE THE ONES THAT
YOU SEE HERE AND OTHER GARAGES
THERE'S FIVE INCH EXPOSURES
CEMENT SIDING, TWO DIFFERENT
COLOR SHADES.
ALL THE WINDOWS ARE JELD-WEN
ALUMINUM CLAD WOOD IN THREE
STYLES CASEMENT ORNATE OR FIXED
PICTURE WINDOWS.
THESE ARE SHOWN AS DOUBLE HUNG
WINDOWS ARE HUNG WINDOWS SASH
OVER SASH.
I DON'T THINK THAT'S CORRECT
BECAUSE THE WINDOWS SCHEDULE
DOESN'T SHOW ANY FOR OVER FOR
WINDOWS THEY'RE ALL CASEMENT'S
SO I THINK THAT THAT'S JUST A
LITTLE BAR ACROSS THE MIDDLE
OF THE DRAWING RESTIMULATED I
DON'T KNOW.
WE'LL FIND OUT FROM APPLICANTS
WHEN WE GET TO SEE AND THERE
WASN'T ANY INFORMATION ON THE
BUTTONS ON ANY OF THESE WINDOWS
AS THEY'RE SHOWN.
SO STAFF CONDITION THE PROPOSED
MOTION ON THE USE OF EXTERIOR
INTERIOR APPLIED BUTTONS WITH
AN INTERIOR SPACER WHICH IS
YOUR NORM FOR FALSE OR FAKE
WINDOWS THE PROJECT.
>> SO LET ME GET THROUGH THIS
FIRST.
THIS IS THE S ELEVATION OF UNIT
B SO THIS IS THE SORT OF THE
MIDDLE OF THESE BUILDINGS WITH
THE COLOR OF THE GARAGE HERE
YOU SEE HOW THE BRICK WRAPS
AROUND THE FRONT DON'T MAKE
MORE SENSE IN A SECOND.
OK,
OK, I HOPE THAT MY
ELEVATIONS ARE JUST OUT
OF ORDER IN THE SLIDE SHOW HERE
BECAUSE I'M MISSING A COUPLE.
I KNOW THAT THEY'RE IN THE
PACKET SO HERE'S WHAT IT'LL
LOOK LIKE WITH THE SEVENTIES
JUST SITTING COMPOSITE SIDING
IN THESE SORT OF BOX A TRIM
AREA SET UP ON THE THIRD
FLOORS.
WE'VE GOT BRICK FACING THE
STREET.
THIS IS THE SORT OF THE WHOLE
THING GIVES SORT OF A MODERN
INDUSTRIAL VIBE IT'S GOT THOUGH
THE METAL PORCH.
>> HERE'S THE DOUBLE GARAGE
DOOR.
THIS IS A GOOSENECK LIGHTING
FIXTURE AND THIS BACK HERE IS
THE YOU OFF IN THE DISTANCE ON
THE SOUTH ELEVATION.
THIS IS THE MAIN ENTRY FOR UNIT
A YOU CAN SEE THE MIX
OF CLADDING MATERIALS.
THERE ARE METAL RAILINGS
PROPOSED FOR THE ROOF X GOT
YOUR TRELLIS HERE THERE IS A
SMALL RETAINING WALL HERE TO
ACCOUNT FOR THE OF THE LOT AND
THE PATIO IS BEYOND IT.
I BELIEVE.
>> YEAH.
HERE'S THE REST OF OUR
ELEVATIONS.
THIS IS THE STREET FACING
ACTUALLY AND FACING MOSTLY
THESE ARE THE BACKS OF THE
BUILDINGS.
THIS IS THE BACK OF THE GARAGE
HERE PATIO DOORS
GRADUAL
EVASIONS PRETTY SIMPLE, PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD.
THIS IS THE PERSON DOOR THAT
LEADS TO THE HOUSE TO THE MAIN
HOUSE.
ONE OF THESE IS THE WAY AND I
GOT THAT WRONG.
THIS IS THE WEST.
THIS IS THE THIS IS THE DOOR TO
THE EU.
ONE OF THESE IS A PERSON OR
LEADS THE HOUSE.
THE OTHER ONE IS JUST SOME
STORAGE UNDER THE STAIRS NORTH
ELEVATION MORE BRICK AND SIDING
.
I'VE READ TO YOU THE STANDARDS
NINE AND 10 I'VE READ TO YOU
NOT THIS ONE FROM THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR GUIDELINES FOR
BUILDING SITES RECOMMENDED TO
DESIGN NEW EXTERIOR ADDITIONS
OR
ADJACENT NEW CONSTRUCTION
WHICH IS COMPATIBLE WITH THE
HISTORIC CHARACTER OF THE SITE
WHICH PRESERVES THE HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN A BUILDING
OR BUILDINGS LANDSCAPE FEATURES
OPEN SPACE IT'S RECOMMENDED TO
RETAIN HISTORIC RELATIONSHIPS
ON THE SITE.
REALLY THERE ARE NO HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIPS OF THIS SITE
ANYMORE SO WE'RE KIND
OF LOOKING AT THE BROADER
NEIGHBORHOOD.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO
INTRODUCE NEW CONSTRUCTION
WHICH IS VISUALLY INCOMPATIBLE
OR TO INTRODUCE A NEW BUILDING
THAT'S OUT OF SCALE OR
OTHERWISE APPROPRIATE.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO
INTRODUCE NEW CONSTRUCTIONS
HISTORIC DISTRICTS THAT'S
VISUALLY INCOMPATIBLE OR THAT
DESTROYS RELATIONSHIPS WITHIN
THAT DISTRICT OR THE
NEIGHBORHOOD FROM THE END
OF OUR HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR NEW
CONSTRUCTION, IT'S APPROPRIATE
TO RETAIN HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIPS, DESIGN NEW
FEATURES THAT ARE COMPATIBLE
WITH THE HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF THE SITE, DISTRICT AND
NEIGHBORHOOD.
IT'S ALSO APPROPRIATE TO BASE
THE SITE LOCATION OF NEW
BUILDINGS ON EXISTING DISTRICT
SETBACKS, ORIENTATION SPACING
AND DISTANCE BETWEEN ADJACENT
BUILDINGS.
I THINK THAT THIS PROPOSAL
ACTUALLY DOES AN OUTSTANDING
JOB OF THAT.
IT'S TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT
ADJACENT BUILDINGS AND TO
DIFFERENT STREETS, MADE
APPROPRIATE ADJUSTMENTS TO THE
FRONT SET BACKS AND AND HOW
THEY RELATE TO THE BUILDINGS
THE REST OF THE DISTRICT.
IT IS APPROPRIATE TO DESIGN NEW
BUILDINGS TO BE COMPATIBLE WITH
BUT DISCERNIBLE FROM
SURROUNDING BUILDINGS THAT
CONTRIBUTE TO THE OVERALL
CHARACTER OF THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT IN TERMS OF HEIGHT,
FORM, SIZE, SCALE, MASSIVE
PROPORTIONS AND RUCCI THESE
BUILDINGS ARE THREE STORIES
TALL AND THERE ARE THERE'S A
THREE STORY BUILDING TWO AND A
HALF STOREY BUILDING RIGHT NEXT
DOOR.
THE FOOTPRINTS ARE VERY
COMPATIBLE WITH THE HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN THE SURROUNDING
DISTRICT.
IF YOU LOOK EACH OF THE UNITS
SEPARATELY AND THE GARAGE IN
BETWEEN AND CERTAINLY THE
BUILDINGS ARE DISCERNIBLE FROM
SURROUNDING BUILDINGS.
THERE ARE OF TIME THIS IS A
POPULAR INDUSTRIAL DESIGN FROM
THE TWENTY TWENTIES AND I THINK
THAT IT REALLY READS AS SUCH
AND FIFTY YEARS FROM NOW YOU'LL
BE ABLE TO LOOK BACK AND SAY OH
YEAH, THAT'S ONE OF THOSE 20
BUILDINGS IT'S APPROPRIATE TO
DESIGN NEW SIDEWALKS,
ENTRANCES, STEPS, PORCHES AND
CANOPIES TO BE CONSISTENT WITH
THE HISTORIC RHYTHM ESTABLISHED
IN THE DISTRICT.
IT'S NOT APPROPRIATE TO
INTRODUCE NEW CONSTRUCTION
WHICH IS VISUALLY INCOMPATIBLE
IN TERMS OF SIZE SCALE DESIGN
MATERIALS AND TEXTURE WHICH
DESTROY RELATIONSHIPS ON THE
SITE OF THE DISTRICT LIKE ANY
OF THOSE ARE AN ISSUE WITH THIS
ONE.
SO LET ME GO BACK UP TO OUR
DRAWINGS.
LET ME SEE WHAT I MISSED HERE.
THE PROJECT WILL REQUIRE A
VARIANCE FROM THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS FOR SETBACKS.
IT'S IT'S A COMMERCIALLY ZONED
LOT SO THEY'RE SUPPOSED TO KEEP
THE ENTIRE REAR THIRTY FEET
OPEN ABOVE ANYTHING EVEN
GARAGES AND YOU IT'S JUST THAT
A LOT STEEPER.
IT'S NOT THAT JUST YEAH.
SO THEY'RE GOING TO NEED TO
APPLY FOR A VARIANCE FOR THAT.
TYPICALLY THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS APPRECIATES WHEN
APPLICATIONS LIKE THIS COME TO
THE DC FIRST BECAUSE IF THEY
KNOW THAT YOU GUYS ARE OK WITH
SOMETHING I LOOK AT IT A LITTLE
DIFFERENTLY THAN IF THEY WERE
TO COME UP FIRST IN LINE FOR
REVIEW.
YEAH I REALLY STEPPED BELIEVES
THE THE THE MACING AND THE
MATERIALS ARE APPROPRIATE.
THE DESIGN IS OF ITS TIME THEY
THE SETBACKS ARE APPROPRIATE
WITH THE SURROUNDING BUILDINGS
AND NEIGHBORHOOD AND STAFF
RECOMMENDS APPROVAL.
THANK YOU
.
OK THANK YOU VERY MUCH MISS
THATCHER.
APPRECIATE THAT.
>> I WILL NOW GIVE THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT.
I AGREE WITH WITH THE STAFF
REPORT THIS THIS THIS PROPOSAL
COULD HAVE BEEN KIND OF LOOK
LIKE A MOCK HISTORIC HOUSE OR
SOMETHING OR AND AND THAT'S NOT
THE ROUTE THAT THEY WENT.
IT DOES LOOK MORE OF LIKE IT
WAS BUILT TODAY NOT TRYING TO
FAKE THAT.
IT WAS, YOU KNOW, BUILT ONE
HUNDRED YEARS AGO.
SO THAT'S YOU KNOW, THAT'S I
GUESS SOMETHING THAT'S
COMPATIBLE WITH WITH BUILDING A
NEW HOUSE HERE IN THIS
LOCATION.
THERE'S A SLIDE IN THE A LOT
OF TIMES THE THE PROPOSALS THAT
WE GET FOR LIKE NEW
CONSTRUCTION WITHIN HISTORIC
DISTRICT THEY SHOW A BUNCH
OF SLIDES ABOUT EXISTING YOU
KNOW, WHAT'S EXISTING IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND WHAT ARE ALL
THE THINGS I THINK THIS THIS IS
VERY CONFIDENT THAT THEY'RE
COMPATIBLE.
THEY ONLY SHOWED I THINK THEY
KNOW THAT THEY'RE COMPATIBLE.
THEY ONLY SHOWED ONE SLIDE AND
IT'S A IT'S A SITE PLAN SLIDE
SO IT'S NOT EVEN SO DESCRIPTIVE
FROM A MATERIAL STANDPOINT.
I DON'T IT WASN'T IN THE STAFF
REPORT.
BUT IF YOU WANT TO LOOK IN THE
WAS IN THE STAFF REPORT, IT
JUST WASN'T IN THE REPORT
TODAY.
>> BUT IT'S THIS SLIDE HERE.
DID YOU SEE THIS SLIDE THE
YEAH.
>> YEAH.
SO THAT SHOWS YEAH.
THE CONTEXT.
SO AT LEAST YOU KNOW THIS IS
THEY'RE AWARE OF THE CONTEXT
CLEARLY FROM THE DESIGN BUT
IT'S REALLY TO ME TAKING WELL I
GUESS IF YOU SEE ON THAT STREET
THERE THE MASSING OF AND SIZE
OF THE SINGLE FAMILY HOMES ON
ASHLEY STREET ARE MORE OR LESS
THE SAME AS WHAT'S BEING
PROPOSED BUT THE MACING IN THE
MATERIALS ARE REALLY MORE FROM
KIND OF THE MAIN STREET
COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS LIKE THE
BUILDING RIGHT ACROSS FROM THAT
BACKS TO ASHLEY AND AND THE
AISLE YOU KNOW ALL THE BRICK
COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS ON MAIN
STREET I SAY IS WHERE IT TAKES
MORE OF ITS MATERIALS FROM OR
AT LEAST HALF THE BRICK PART
AND THE BOXES OF THE MACING.
>> BUT SINCE IT'S RIGHT ON THE
EDGE OF THE DISTRICT, IT'S
RIGHT THERE.
>> SO YOU IF ANYTHING, IT'S
IT'S REALLY A NICE TRANSITION
FROM THE RESIDENTIAL RIGHT AT
THE EDGE AND TRANSITIONING TO
THE DOWNTOWN BUILDING SO IT
TRANSITIONS VERY NICELY AND I
THINK THAT IS WORKING.
LET ME JUST SEE THE REST OF MY
NOTES HERE.
>> VERY GOOD.
OK, THE ONE THING THAT IT
STRUCK MY EYE IS BEING CURIOUS
OR ONE OF THE THINGS WAS THE
THE THE AREA WELLS THAT ARE IN
THE FRONT OPEN SPACE AND I
WASN'T ACTUALLY AWARE OF THEM
WHEN I WAS ON THE SITE SO I
CAN'T REALLY TELL YOU I NOTICED
THEM LATER AFTER LOOKING AT THE
REPORT.
SO I THINK WE'LL JUST HAVE TO
IMAGINE IT'S THE SETBACKS.
FIFTEEN FEET SO THEY ARE THERE
THEY'RE THEY'RE RIGHT THERE
NEAR THE SIDEWALK.
>> OTHER THINGS I WAS CURIOUS
ABOUT THAT I'D LIKE TO HEAR
FROM THE APPLICANT IS ONE
OF THE KIND OF OLD WEST SIDE
YOU KNOW THE THINGS THAT A LOT
OF THE OLD WEST SIDE HOMES HAVE
IS THAT LIKE A FULL WIDTH FRONT
PORCH AND NEITHER OF THESE
HOMES HAVE ANYTHING REALLY
CLOSE TO THAT.
AND ALSO I JUST FEEL LIKE FOR
COMPATIBILITY I WOULD HAVE
EXPECTED KIND OF THAT FULL
FRONT PORCH AND TO HAVE BOTH
ENTRANCES BE ON ON ASHLEY FOR
ME THAT JUST SEEMS KIND OF LIKE
I LIKE THAT WOULD BE THE
DEFAULT.
SO I'M CURIOUS AS TO WHY WE
DON'T HAVE THOSE KIND OF STYLE
PORCHES AND YOU KNOW, ONE
OF THE PORCHES ACTUALLY
ENTERING IN OFF OF MOSLEY THERE
.
>> OK, SO THAT'S THAT'S THE
REPORT.
LET'S MOVE ON TO THE NEXT PART
HERE WHICH IS THE APPLICANT
COMMENT.
>> SO WITH THE APPLICANT PLEASE
APPROACH THE PODIUM, PROVIDE
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS FOR THE
RECORD THE FLOOR IS YOURS FOR
FIVE MINUTES.
>> THANK YOU.
OK, MY NAME IS MARK GRUDER
ASSOCIATES ARCHITECTS AND
PILOTS AS A FIVE FIFTEEN FIFTH
STREET.
I'M HERE WITH DAN MAVIN
CONSTRUCTION DAN WILLIAMS WHO
MAY ADD SOME THINGS THAT SLIDE
THIS UP THERE TO TALK ABOUT
THAT A LITTLE BIT DAN STARTED
WORKING ON THIS ABOUT THREE
YEARS AGO AND I STARTED WORKING
ON IT ABOUT THAT THREE YEARS GO
TO SO WE HAD A LOT OF TIME TO
THINK ABOUT THIS SITE WE MET
WITH JILL THATCHER THREE TIMES
,MAYBE EVEN FOUR TIMES DURING
THE COURSE OF THE THREE YEARS
THAT WE PRESENTED ANY SCHEMES
WE HAD TOWNHOUSE SCHEMES OH WE
HAD PARKING UNDERNEATH SCHEMES
LIKE WE'VE DONE ON DAVIS STREET
AND OTHER STREETS AND NONE
OF THOSE WERE PARTICULARLY
GETTING AT THE WHAT WE THOUGHT
WAS THE AND WHAT WAS THE THE
SCALE AND KIND OF CHARACTER
THIS NEIGHBORHOOD LOOKING AT
THAT SLIDE THERE WITH THE GREEN
SPACE.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT THAT I
ALWAYS LIKE TO HAVE A CORNER
LOT IS TO ADDRESS BOTH STREETS
AND NOT TURN YOUR BACK ON ONE
STREET AND THE TOWNHOUSE SCHEME
REALLY ALIGNED THE TOWNHOUSES.
YOU HAVE A KIND OF A BACK SIDE
SO YOU COULD THERE WERE A
COUPLE OF WAYS TO ORIENT THOSE
TOWNHOUSES BUT THE WAY WE DID
IT WE ALWAYS ENDED UP WITH A
WHOLE LOT MORE PAVEMENT ON THAT
SIDE THAN WE DID IF WE TOOK AN
APPROACH LIKE THIS.
AND AS YOU LOOK AT THE AMOUNT
OF GREEN ON SPACE AND THE SLIDE
THAT PREVIOUSLY SHOWED THE OLD
ALMOND CLEANER'S ON
PROBABLY
EIGHTY FIVE PERCENT OF THAT LOT
WAS COVERED WITH ROOFS AND
CONCRETE AND I HAVEN'T DONE THE
CALCULATIONS ON THIS YET.
WHEN I GO TO PLANNING I WILL DO
THE CALCULATION IN THE OPEN
SPACE BUT YOU CAN SEE THAT IT'S
PROBABLY CLOSE TO SIXTY SEVEN
PERCENT SIXTY OR 70 PERCENT
MAYBE GREEN SPACE ON THIS SITE
AND THE CONTEXT SLIDE THAT WAS
SHOWN EARLIER I THINK IT'S C
ONE TWO CAN YOU PUT THAT IN
JILLS IT'S C TURNING POINT WHAT
.
>> THAT'S OK WE'VE GOT ON OUR
STAFF SO WE'RE LOOKING AT IT IT
JUST CAN'T GO ON THE YEAH WELL
THEN I THINK THE SIZE OF THE
BUILDINGS THE CHARACTER OF THE
BUILDINGS IS SOMEWHAT EVEN
SMALLER THAN SOME OF THE HOUSES
NEXT DOOR AND THEN THERE IS A
SLIDE TOWARDS THE LAST IN THE
REPORT WHICH SHOWS THE RELATIVE
HEIGHTS OF THE BUILDINGS ON
EITHER SIDE AND THE ACCESSORY
BUILDING IS MUCH SHORTER THAN
AN ACCESSORY BUILDING IS
ALLOWED TO BE AND IT'S QUITE A
BIT SHORTER THAN THE HOUSE
ADJACENT TO IT AND THE HOUSE
NEXT TO BE THERE ON THE NORTH
IS IS A FAIRLY TALL HOUSE AND
IT DOESN'T REALLY OVERWHELM
THAT HOUSE.
>> SO THOSE ARE THE MAIN THINGS
I WANTED TO TALK TO YOU ABOUT.
I THINK ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
YOU JUST BROUGHT UP WAS THE
EGRESSED THE LARGE EGRESSED
WELL THERE AND IF WE'RE GOING
TO DO AN EGRESS WELL AND WE
WANT TO MAKE THE LOWER LIVING
AREA REALLY HABITABLE NOT JUST
A BASEMENT WITH A CLIMB OUT
CHTELET WELL, THE SOUTH FACING
SIDE IS A PLACE TO DO A REALLY
NICE EGRESS.
>> WELL, THERE THAT WASN'T
THERE'S MORE AN EGRESS WELL IT
WAS LIKE A SUNKEN GARDEN THAT'S
OVEREMPHASIZING BUT IT GETS A
LOT OF LIGHT INTO REALLY NICE
SPACE DOWN THERE AND ADDS A LOT
OF LIVABILITY TO THAT LOWER
LEVEL.
SO THAT'S WHY THAT AREA AS WELL
AS THEIR THEN GOING DOWN TO
LAND.
SO I'LL TAKE AN QUESTIONS HERE
IF YOU HAVE ANY YEAH.
>> ANY QUESTIONS I GUESS COULD
YOU TALK ABOUT IN TERMS
OF COMPATIBILITY AND THE
LOCATING THE GARAGE FOR YOU TO
BE SO CLOSE UP TO THE SIDEWALK
WHERE YOU DON'T REALLY SEE THAT
ANYWHERE IN THE NEAR VICINITY
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT THE GARAGE
BEING SAY THAT AGAIN SO YOU'VE
GOT THE GARAGE UNIT BE PUSHED
PRETTY CLOSE UP TO THE SIDEWALK
AS COMPARED TO THE OTHER
HISTORIC HOUSES WHERE THE
GARAGE IS KIND OF IN THE
BACKYARD.
SO IT'S THAT'S KIND OF CREATING
AN UNCOMMON SITUATION WHERE THE
GARAGE IS LIKE RIGHT UP THERE.
>> SO CAN YOU TALK ABOUT THAT?
ONE OF THE TRADEOFFS THERE IS
GETTING LIGHT AND AIR AND GREEN
SPACE TO BOTH OF THOSE UNITS SO
AND THE OTHER TRADEOFF IS CAN
YOU PARK A CAR IN FRONT OF THE
GARAGE WITHOUT CROSSING OVER
THE SIDEWALK?
SO I THE GARAGES ARE
SPECIFICALLY ARRANGED SO THAT
YOU CAN GET ONE CAR SO IT'S ON
THE PROPERTY THERE WITHOUT
BEING ON THE SIDEWALK AND STILL
NOT OBSCURING A LOT OF THE REAR
LOT AREA.
SO THAT'S KIND WHY THE GARAGES
ARRIVED AT THAT LOCATION THERE
AND THEY ALSO THE GARAGE
BETWEEN UNIT AND B THEN DOES
NOT BLOCK THE WINDOWS THEN IN
UNITS AND SO THAT'S KIND OF THE
TRADEOFF WE WE MADE NOW IN
TERMS THE OTHER QUESTION THAT
WAS ASKED IS WHY ARE THE
DEPARTURES SMALLER?
I THINK THE STAFF REPORT
BROUGHT UP A GOOD POINT THAT
THIS HAS BEEN A COMMERCIAL
CORRIDOR SINCE AT LEAST
EIGHTEEN TWENTY FIVE MAYBE SO
IT'S HAD A BIG HISTORY OF BEING
A KIND OF AN URBAN CORNER.
AND WHEN YOU LOOK AT THAT
PICTURE OF THE OLD ALMOND
CLEANER'S NINETEEN EIGHTY SEVEN
I THINK IT WAS IT'S CLEAR THAT
WAS REALLY INTERESTING KIND
OF MODERNE BUILDING CLAD IN
LOOKS LIKE PORCELAIN GLASS AND
SO IT'S HAD THAT KIND OF THAT
SIDE HAS HAD THAT CHARACTER FOR
MANY YEARS AND OF COURSE THAT
CORNER HAS BEEN VERY COMMERCIAL
CORNER FOR A LONG TIME.
AND SO WE DAN AND I TALKED
ABOUT THIS FOR QUITE A WHILE
OVER THE THREE YEARS AND WE
TRIED OUT A LOT OF SCHEMES FOR
THIS AND WHAT SEEMED TO BE THE
MOST NATURAL FOR THAT WAS TO
CREATE A KIND OF A MORE
COMMERCIAL LOOKING FLAT ROOFED
BUILDING IN THIS AREA TO
REFLECT WHAT IS ON THE OTHER
PARTS THAT WERE NOT HISTORIC.
>> SO I DON'T KNOW IF I
ANSWERED YOUR QUESTION IN THIS
ROUZER OR NOT, BUT THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FROM OUR OR
DAN?
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU, MARK.
APPRECIATE IT.
DAN, ANYTHING TO ADD OR YOUR
GARY OVER THERE.
>> OK, VERY GOOD.
>> OK SO NOW WE WILL OPEN THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS
APPLICATION.
>> IT IS SIX THIRTY SOUTH
ASHLEE'S STREET.
NO ONE'S APPROACHING THE
PODIUM.
DO WE HAVE ANY ANYONE VIRTUALLY
NO.
VERY GOOD.
WE WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING AND I WILL ASK IF THERE
IS A COMMISSIONER WHO WOULD
LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION ON THIS
APPLICATION.
>> I CAN DO IT WE WANT TO YOU
TO BECAUSE HE SAYS OK, YES
PLEASE.
>> I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUED A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT SIX THIRTY S.
S ASHLEY STREET A VACANT LOT IN
THE OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC
DISTRICT TO CONSTRUCT A DUPLEX
AND A DETACHED GARAGE WITH AN
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT ON A
VACANT LOT ON THE FOLLOWING
CONDITION THAT ALL WINDOWS WITH
DIVIDED LIGHTS USE BUTTONS
APPLY TO THE EXTERIOR AND
INTERIOR OF THE GLASS AND A
CORRESPONDING SPACE BETWEEN THE
GLASS.
THE WORK CONDITION IS
COMPATIBLE AND EXTERIOR DESIGN
ARRANGEMENT TEXTURE MATERIAL
AND RELATIONSHIP THE
SURROUNDING AREA AND MEETS THE
ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR ALL NEW
CONSTRUCTION IN THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARD FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS NINE AND TEN IN THE
GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING SITE
AND DISTRICT CLASS NEIGHBORHOOD
SECOND THANK YOU THAT WAS MOVED
BY COMMISSIONER ROSS AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
CAPLAN.
BEFORE WE GET TO THE DISCUSSION
CAN I ASK YOU A QUESTION
PLEASE?
SO WE HAD A QUESTION THE STAFF
REPORT ABOUT WINDOWS ON THE
PROPOSAL.
THEY LOOK LIKE TYPICAL DOUBLE
HONGS BUT I THINK ON THE
ELEVATIONS WE'RE THINKING THAT
THERE THAT YOU'RE NOT PROPOSING
DOUBLE HUNG'S.
CAN YOU CAN YOU JUST TALK ABOUT
THAT AND THEN ANYTHING ELSE YOU
WANT TO SAY ABOUT THE WINDOWS?
>> POLICE OFTEN HAVE A PROBLEM
WITH DOUBLE HUNG'S SERVING AS
EGRESS WINDOWS.
YEAH, THEY HAVE TO BE THE SCALE
HAS TO BE REALLY INAPPROPRIATE
FOR DOUBLE HUNG WINDOWS TO GET
THE NECESSARY AREA.
SO WE OFTEN DO A SIMULATED
KASEMAN THAT LOOKS LIKE A
DOUBLE HUM.
SO SOME OF THESE ARE PRESENTED
THAT WAY AND THE WINDOWS ON THE
TOP THIRD FLOOR ARE WITHOUT
MONTAIGNE'S PURPOSELY BECAUSE
WE WANTED TO KIND OF CONVEY A
MORE CONTEMPORARY LOOK LIKE
YOU'RE DOING.
IN ADDITION ON TOP OF A
EXISTING BUILDING AND YOU MIGHT
SORT OF DOWNPLAY THE DELICACY
OF THE WINDOWS ON THAT THIRD
FLOOR.
SO SOME OF THE WINDOWS DON'T
HAVE MAINTENANCE IN THEM BUT
WINDOWS THAT ARE MORE IN THE
BRICK TWO STOREY PART TEND TO
LOOK MORE LIKE A TRADITIONAL
KIND OF WINDOW.
>> OK, SO ARE YOU PROPOSING ANY
DOUBLE HUNG WINDOWS?
ARE ALL OF THE WINDOWS EITHER
AWNING OR KASEMAN OR GLASS?
I MADE A MISTAKE ON MY WINDOWS
SCHEDULE.
>> YEAH I THINK WE WENT BACK
AND FORTH ON THAT AND LIKE OK
CAN YOU BRING UP THE WINDOWS
SCHEDULE?
I GUESS WE CAN JUST LOOK AT THE
WINDOWS OF MY WINDOWS AND SUCH
MODEL.
>> WE'LL TAKE A LOOK.
>> SMALL SCALE RIGHT.
>> THERE'S ONE THAT SAYS
RESERVE W4 I WAS WONDERING
ABOUT THAT BECAUSE THE REST SAY
SAY ON ENCASEMENT OR YOUR FIX
IS LIKE A PLACEHOLDER FOR A
WINDOW THAT WE MAYBE FORGOT
ABOUT.
SO WE OFTEN PUT THAT IN AND SO
THERE ARE NO FLOORS, NO GOT IT.
YEAH THAT'S LIKE SO TINY BY NOT
USING IT AND WE MAY HAVE
DECIDED THAT WE MIGHT WANT IT
OUT OF THE WINDOW TO A BEDROOM
OR A BATHROOM AND THEN I YEAH
YOU DON'T HAVE TO REDO THE
SCHEDULE OK SO YOU SEE LIKE W
TEN THERE IT LOOKS LIKE A
DOUBLE HUNG BUT IT'S IT'S IT'S
A CASE WITH SIMULATED IT'S A
SIMULATED DOUBLE HUNG YES.
>> YEAH OK VERY GOOD.
THANK FOR THAT.
>> OK SO JUST WANTED TO GET
THAT CLEARED UP OK SO WE JUST
HEARD THE MOTION ARE THERE ANY
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION I'LL
JUST POINT SOMETHING OUT THAT I
APPRECIATED WHILE WE GET OUR
THOUGHTS TOGETHER THE JUST IN
TERMS OF THE HOW THE DESIGN
COMES TOGETHER IN TERMS
OF MATERIALS IF YOU COULD PUT A
ONE OF THE COLORED RENDERINGS
ELEVATION DRAWINGS UP THERE THE
JUST THE WAY THAT THE THE
MATERIALITY IS PUT ONTO THESE
ELEVATIONS, OBVIOUSLY THE BRICK
CONVEYS THAT THAT KIND
OF COMMERCIAL ASPECT THAT THE
DESIGNER WAS JUST TALKING
ABOUT.
BUT AND ALSO HOW THE SECOND
STORY PARAPET IF YOU WILL
OF THE BRICK IS REALLY BROUGHT
UP
QUITE HIGH LIKE HIGHER THAN
IT NEEDS TO BE AND SO YOU CAN
SEE LIKE WE'VE GOT A TEN FOOT
TO FIRST FLOOR, A NINE FOOT
SECOND FLOOR BUT THAT BRICK IS
BROUGHT UP AND I THINK IT JUST
WILL MINIMIZE THE THIRD STORY.
I MEAN IT DOES OBVIOUSLY IT'S
QUITE EFFECTIVE AT WHERE YES.
THIS WE'RE SEEING A THREE
STOREY MACING BUT I THINK WITH
THAT RAISED PARAPET AND THEN
ALSO THAT IT'S SET BACK WITH
THOSE THOSE PATIOS PROBABLY
WILL FEEL NOT LIKE A THREE
STOREY NECESSARILY.
>> SO I APPRECIATED THAT PART
OF THE DESIGN.
I THINK THAT REALLY HELPS WITH
WITH COMPATIBILITY TO THE TO
THE SITE
COMMISSIONER, ANY
THOUGHTS HERE KNOW PRETTY WELL
FOR ME.
>> OK, ANYTHING ANYTHING
COMMISSIONER FOREIGNER
COMMISSIONER KAPLIN NO NO MORE
COMMENTS.
OK ALL RIGHT WELL I DON'T HAVE
ANYTHING TO SEE EITHER SO LET'S
JUST GO TO A VOTE.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY YES.
>> YES ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE
SAY NO.
>> THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION'S BEEN APPROVED.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
TAKE CARE.
>> OK, SO THAT IS ALMOST ALL
THE HEARINGS.
>> WE DO HAVE ANOTHER HEARING
LISTED.
THERE'S NOT A PROPOSAL THAT
GOES WITH IT BUT WE'LL HAVE TO
OPEN A PUBLIC HEARING FOR IT.
SO CAN I JUST GO RIGHT TO THAT?
YES, WITHOUT ANY FURTHER ADO,
LET'S OPEN THE PUBLIC HEARING
FOR FIVE FOURTEEN SIXTH STREET
THIS THIS WAS ACTUALLY SCAFF
APPROVED I BELIEVE ALREADY.
SO THAT'S OPEN.
DO WE HAVE ANY ONE VIRTUALLY NO
WE DON'T.
SO NOW CLOSE THAT ONE AND THAT
IS ALL THE HEARINGS FOR THE DAY
BUT WE'RE JUST GETTING STARTED.
>> PEOPLE SO BECAUSE WE'VE GOT
SOME NEW BUSINESS TONIGHT AND
ON THE AGENDA WE'VE GOT TWO
ITEMS AND I BELIEVE BOTH
OF THEM ARE OUR FROM STAFF.
>> RIGHT.
SO WE'LL JUST THESE WON'T TAKE
LONG THROW IT OVER TO YOU.
>> NO GUARANTEES FOR THE
UPCOMING MONTHS BUT TONIGHT
WE'LL BE QUICK.
WE IT IS IT IS IT'S ELECTION
TIME.
SO WE NEED A VOLUNTEER OR MORE
TO ACT AS THE NOMINATING
COMMITTEE AND BRING TO THE
NOVEMBER HGC MEETING A SLATE
OF CANDIDATES FOR OUR THREE
OFFICES.
COMMISSIONER ROCHLIN, IS THIS
YOUR FIRST TERM AS CHAIR?
I THINK IT LIKELY IS, YEAH.
I MEAN I TOOK OVER FOR
COMMISSIONER EVERSON BUT I
DON'T KNOW IF I DID A FULL YOU
KNOW, THIS IS PROBABLY MY FIRST
TERM.
>> YEAH.
THIS IS YOUR FIRST TERM.
YEAH.
YOU GET TO DO ANOTHER ONE IF
YOU WOULD LIKE.
OK, SURE.
COMMISSIONERS' KAPLIN FORTNER
THESE ARE ALSO YOUR FIRST TERMS
IN OFFICE.
CORRECT.
SO IT DOESN'T MATTER IF YOU'RE
ALREADY IN OFFICE YOU COULD
STILL BE THE NOMINATING
COMMITTEE.
WE JUST NEED SOMEBODY TO TO PUT
FORWARD A SLATE AND IF ANY
OF THE THREE OF YOU HAVE AN
ISSUE WITH THIS RIGHT NOW I
DON'T WANT TO BE AN OFFICER
STARTING NEXT MONTH.
SPEAK NOW OR FOREVER.
HOLD YOUR PEACE.
YOU DON'T WANT TO BE AN
OFFICER.
OK, OK SO THE POSITION OF THE
VICE CHIEF SECRETARY IS YEAH
THAT'S RIGHT.
CAPITEC BETWEEN JESUP SO WE
WILL NEED A NEW NOMINEE FOR
SECRETARY LIKE GET BACK COULD
BE COMMISSIONER ROSS PERHAPS IT
COULD BE OF INTEREST SMITH OR
COMMISSIONER CALDERON.
WELL I THINK WE SHOULD ASSIGN
ONE OF THE MEMBERS TO BE I MEAN
I I COULD BE THE COMMITTEE
PERSON.
>> YOU WANT TO BE THE
COMMITTEE.
YES I CAN DO THAT.
GOOD.
THEN YOU'LL HAVE SOME INSIGHT
INTO WHETHER OR NOT YOU WANT
THAT POSITION HAVE DONE SINCE
YOU ARE HERE.
I FEEL LIKE YOU KNOW YOU SHOULD
AT LEAST GET FIRST FIRST DIBS
AT HEARING ABOUT IT.
>> SO THANK YOU SO YOU SHOULD
CONTACT THOSE TWO NUMBERS AND
SEE IF THEY'RE INTERESTED OR OR
YOU'RE WELCOME TO FREEZE IT AS
I'D LIKE TO PICK YOU ARE YOU OK
WITH THAT?
OK, YOUR CHOICE OF APPROACHES.
GOTCHA.
OK BECAUSE YOU'RE THE GUY ALL
RIGHT I'M ON IT.
>> IS THIS SOMETHING THE
COMMISSIONER WHY DID FOR LIKE
18 YEARS STRAIGHT?
>> LET'S FOR ALL THE YEARS.
>> YEAH YEAH.
SO SO THIS IS NOW THERE'S A
GREAT LEGACY.
THERE'S A LOT THAT'S A LOT
OF WHITE DID FOR ALMOST TWO
DECADES SO OK THANK YOU
COMMISSIONER ROSS FOR FILLING
THOSE LARGE SHOES.
YOU'RE MORE THAN CAPABLE.
WE APPRECIATE IT LIKE OK OK
MOVING ON DESIGN GUIDELINES
ASSIGNMENT REVIEW THIS IS OUR
FIRST SET OF DESIGN GUIDELINES
THAT WE WEAR.
WE'RE KIND OF WORKING OUT BUGS
AS WE GO AND WE WANT TO KNOW
FROM YOU GUYS WHAT WORKS, WHAT
DOESN'T AS WE MOVE FORWARD.
I DID EMAIL OUT THE GUIDELINE
THE DESIGN GUIDELINES DRAFT.
IT'S GOT KIND OF BAD FORMATTING
AND STUFF.
PLEASE DON'T LOOK AT IT.
IT WAS AN INDESIGN DOCUMENT AND
IT GOT TRANSLATED WORD.
IT'S KIND OF WONKY BUT WE DON'T
CARE ABOUT FORMATTING BECAUSE
WE'RE TO REDO ALL THAT ANYWAY
AT THE END HOW ARE YOU GOING TO
DO IT IN WORD OR IN DESIGN?
YOU'RE NOT GOING TO DO IT.
IT DIDN'T DO IT AND WE'RE GOING
TO DO IT RIGHT?
YEAH, YEAH, YEAH.
UNLESS THAT PROVES TO BE A
PROBLEM IT'S JUST TRYING HARD
TO MANAGE PHOTOS AND WORD IT'S
IT'S GOING TO BE SIMPLIFIED.
YOU'RE NOT GOING TO HAVE THREE
COLUMNS.
THE CURRENT ONE DOES.
YEAH IT'LL HAVE TO BE
REDESIGNED THE FORMATTING WILL
HAVE TO BE REDESIGNED OK
OVERALL IT'S GOING TO BE AN
OVERHAUL.
YEAH FORMATTING.
OK SO YOU SHOULD HAVE RECEIVED
THAT DOCUMENT FOR YOUR REVIEW
AND PLEASE OPEN IT UP AT YOUR
EARLIEST CONVENIENCE AND JUST
CLICK AROUND IN IT TO PRETEND
YOU'RE MAKING A COMMENT.
MAKE SURE YOU KNOW WHERE
EVERYTHING GOES AND HOW IT ALL
WORKS.
IT WOULD BE GREAT IF WE COULD
ALL USE THE SAME DIGITAL
DOCUMENT BECAUSE THEN YOU COULD
SEEING WHAT EACH OTHER HAS SAID
AND YOU CAN JUST SORT OF LIKE
YOU KNOW, GIVE A LITTLE THUMBS
UP LIKE OH I LIKE THAT THING
THAT KATHY SAID ON THIS SO I'M
GOING TO ADD SOMETHING TO IT OR
I'M JUST GOING TO SAY AGREE OR
OR JUST BE SILENT TOO.
YOU DON'T HAVE TO ADD ANYTHING
BUT IT'S NICE IF YOU SEE THAT
SOMEBODY ELSE HAS ALREADY MADE
YOUR SAME COMMENT SO YOU DON'T
HAVE DUPLICATED WE DON'T HAVE
TO SORT THEM OUT LATER I OPENED
IT UP, TOOK A LOOK AT IT.
>> IT WASN'T SO CLEAR THAT I
COULD ACTUALLY COMMENT ON IT
AND THERE WAS A NICE LITTLE
SCREENSHOT THAT SOMEONE PUT IT
IN THERE THAT SAID CLICK THIS
BUTTON BECAUSE THAT WILL ALLOW
YOU TO COMMENT AND ON MY WINDOW
I COULDN'T FIND WHERE THAT
BUTTON WAS.
>> KINGSBURY SAME THING FOR
YOU.
IT WAS NO COMMENT.
YEAH, THERE WAS NO LITTLE I
APPRECIATED THE DESCRIPTION AND
THE YOU KNOW, THE PHOTO
OF EXACTLY WHAT I WAS SUPPOSED
TO DO BUT COULDN'T DO IT WAS
EITHER OF YOU HAVE WORD
INSTALLED ON YOUR COMPUTER?
>> YES.
WELL, YES, I DID IT ON MY
LAPTOP WHERE I DON'T SO I WAS
THINKING IF I GET THAT ON MY
LAPTOP I HAVE BUT WORK.
OK, SO THAT'S BAD.
NEITHER OF YOU SAW THAT ONE
OF YOUR OK IT'S POSSIBLE THAT
THERE'S SOME SHARING PROBLEM
WITH THE CITY'S SERVERS
FIREWALLS AND THINGS LIKE THAT
.
>> SO IF ANYBODY HAS ANY BETTER
IDEAS ON HOW TO DO THIS, LET ME
KNOW.
MARIANA WILL JUMP ON THIS AND
GET A NEW VERSION OUT NEXT WEEK
WHERE EITHER YOU'LL BE ABLE TO
SEE EVERYTHING OR WE MOVE IT
INTO LIKE A PDF OR SOMETHING
WHICH ARE NOT THE BEST COMEDY
BUT YOU MIGHT BE ABLE TO WALK
WITH IT AND FIGURE OUT OK, WHAT
DID WORK WAS LIKE THE
CONFIRMATION THAT I WAS WHO I
SAID I WAS LIKE I CLICK THE
LINK.
IT SENT ME AN EMAIL.
I TYPED IN THE NUMBER TO VERIFY
WHAT WAS IN FACT WHO I WAS AND
LET ME IN.
IT JUST DIDN'T LOOK LIKE I
COULD COMMENT ON AND THAT'S THE
EXPERIENCE OF IT.
OK, SO YEAH I THINK YOU'RE
RIGHT.
YEAH YEAH YEAH.
OPEN IT.
NICE LITTLE PICTURE DOESN'T
ACTUALLY APPEAR IT'S OK BUT IF
WE GET WORD TO WORK AS IT
SHOULD.
DOES THAT SEEM LIKE A DOABLE
FORMAT FOR PEOPLE TO MAKE
COMMENTS AND SUGGESTIONS.
>> YES IT IS.
SO WHAT I WAS LOOKING AT WAS I
THINK WITHIN CHROME IT NEVER
OPENED OUT TO IS IT SUPPOSED TO
BE WITHIN LIKE MICROSOFT WORD
WINDOW NEVER OPENED WORD.
>> RIGHT, RIGHT.
IF YOU WANT IT TO OPEN A WORD,
I'LL HAVE TO FIGURE OUT HOW TO
DO THAT.
I DON'T CARE.
I JUST WAS WONDERING IF IT WAS
SUPPOSED TO HAPPEN.
OK, YEAH I THINK I TOLD IT TO
DO THAT BECAUSE I ASSUME THAT
NOT EVERYBODY WOULD HAVE WORD
INSTALLED ON THEIR LAPTOP.
YES, BUT THEN YOU DON'T GET THE
GOOD WORD.
YEAH I DON'T KNOW.
YEAH BECAUSE IF YOU DOWNLOAD IT
AND OPEN IT ON WORD I DON'T
KNOW THAT THEN THAT CHANGES
SHUT YOU'RE ON A WE'RE GOING TO
PLAY IT.
>> YEAH YEAH.
IS THERE LIKE A COULD DO LIKE A
GOOGLE MAP OR LIKE A SHAREPOINT
SITUATION WE MIGHT BE ABLE TO
DO IT FROM SHAREPOINT.
YES THIS YEAH THIS ONE WAS FROM
WITH FROM WORD DIRECTLY OUT
FROM SHAREPOINT.
RIGHT RIGHT YEAH YEAH.
WE TRIED THAT THOUGH THE WORRY
ABOUT TRANSLATING A TRANSLATED
DOCUMENT INTO IT.
YEAH.
WHICH EVERYBODY CAN LOOK AT.
IS THAT THEN YOU'RE GOING TO
YEAH.
GET EVEN MORE WEIRD.
IS THAT THEN YOU'RE GOING TO
CRAZY YEAH.
GET EVEN MORE WEIRD.
FORMATTING I THINK WHEN WE TRY
CRAZY YEAH.
THAT LOST ALL OF THE CAPTIONS
FORMATTING I THINK WHEN WE TRY
AND ALL THE PICTURES OK WE
THAT LOST ALL OF THE CAPTIONS
DON'T LIKE A LOT OF THOSE
AND ALL THE PICTURES OK WE
ANYWAY BUT YEAH I'LL STILL BE
DON'T LIKE A LOT OF THOSE
ABLE TO SEE YOU AND IF ANYBODY
ANYWAY BUT YEAH I'LL STILL BE
WOULD RATHER JUST LOOK AT A
ABLE TO SEE YOU AND IF ANYBODY
HARD COPY WE CAN BRING THAT TO
WOULD RATHER JUST LOOK AT A
YOU EACH MONTH.
HARD COPY WE CAN BRING THAT TO
JUST LET ME KNOW YOU KNOW IF
YOU EACH MONTH.
YOU FEEL MORE COMFORTABLE
JUST LET ME KNOW YOU KNOW IF
READING A PIECE OF PAPER AND
YOU FEEL MORE COMFORTABLE
HIGHLIGHTING THINGS AND
READING A PIECE OF PAPER AND
CROSSING THINGS OUT, I
HIGHLIGHTING THINGS AND
UNDERSTAND I GET A LOT
CROSSING THINGS OUT, I
OF SATISFACTION OUT OF THAT.
UNDERSTAND I GET A LOT
BUT SO AT THE NEXT MEETING
IN
NOVEMBER THERE WILL BE A TIME
UNDER BUSINESS WHEN WE LOOK AT
WHAT WAS ASSIGNED TONIGHT FOR
YOU TO REVIEW COMMENT ON IF WE
HAVE TIME WELL I WILL TRY TO GO
THROUGH IT BEFORE THE DAY
OF THE MEETING AND YOU KNOW, SO
WE HAVE A FEEL FOR ONE OF YOUR
COMMENTS ARE AND IF THERE ARE
THINGS THAT YOU HAVE CONFLICTS
ABOUT THAT WE REALLY NEED TO
DISCUSS WILL WE'LL MAKE A WHOLE
LIST OF THOSE BUT OTHERWISE WE
WILL RUN THROUGH IT.
THE FIRST COUPLE OF MONTHS ARE
GOING TO BE PRETTY EASY SINCE
THE INTRODUCTION AND THE NEXT
ONE WILL BE THE DESCRIPTIONS
OF ALL HISTORIC DISTRICTS BUT
THEN WILL PROBABLY PROBABLY THE
FIRST OF THE YEAR WE'LL GET
INTO THE REAL TECHNICAL STUFF.
YEAH, QUESTIONS OR SUGGESTIONS
OR SHALL WE JUST GO WITH IT AND
SEE WHAT HAPPENS?
>> I GUESS I'M JUST WONDERING
HOW MUCH WORK IT'S GOING TO BE
AND IF MAYBE THERE'S CERTAIN I
DON'T KNOW IF WE HAVE LIKE A
TARGET DATE TO FINISH THIS BUT
IF IF IT JUST SHOULD BE MAYBE
THERE'S NOT A WAY TO CHUNK IT
UP INTO SMALLER PARTS.
BUT IF THERE'S SOME PARTS THAT
ARE JUST HUGE WE'LL PROBABLY BE
SPENDING THE SAME AMOUNT
OF TIME ON A BIGGER PART.
SO MAYBE CHILDBED IT'S POSSIBLE
SOME THINGS MAYBE YOU JUST
CAN'T SPLIT UP.
>> I THINK IT'LL ALSO DEPEND ON
THE BEACHES IF WE'VE GOT FIVE
THINGS OUT OF AGENDA AND WE'RE
SUPPOSED TO TALK ABOUT 40 PAGES
OF DESIGN GUIDELINES THAT'S
GOING TO BE TOUGH.
YEAH.
SO YOU KNOW THAT WAY WE AT HOME
LOOK ONLY AT PAGES 60 TO 80.
YEAH.
IS THAT 60 TO 100 OR SOMETHING
LIKE THAT.
BUT THE OPPOSITE ALSO HOLDS
TRUE IF IT'S JANUARY AND WE'RE
NOT EXPECTING MUCH ON THE
AGENDA.
>> YEAH.
PILING YEAH.
YEAH I'LL GIVE YOU ANY MORE
HOMEWORK OVERALL WE WHERE WE DO
EXPECT IT TO TAKE ABOUT A YEAR
TO DO NOT INCLUDING THE
FORMATTING.
>> YEAH.
>> WILL YOU BE TAKING KIND OF A
FIRST PASS BECAUSE I KNOW THAT
YOU ARE MORE AWARE OF THE
STANDARDS THAN WE ARE AND SORT
OF WHAT WORKS AND WHAT YOU GO
THROUGH SO MANY ITERATIONS WITH
THE APPLICANTS BEFORE WE SEE
THEM, YOU KNOW AND SO YOU
REALLY KNOW WHAT'S WHAT AND SO
HOW ARE YOU HANDLING ALL THE
BAD INFORMATION THAT YOU HAVE?
>> SO IN THE VERSION THAT
YOU'RE NOT ABLE TO COMMENT ON,
IT DOES TRACK CHANGES FOR
MARIANNA'S COMMENTS AND SO
YOU'LL SEE LOTS OF STUFF THAT'S
IN RED AND UNDERMIND AND OTHER
STUFF THAT'S THAT'S CROSSED OUT
GREAT.
AND SO WE'LL JUST BE ADDING
BULLET POINTS AND TAKING THEM
AWAY AND PUTTING OUR OWN
COMMENTS IN THE LITTLE COMMENT
BOXES ON THE SIDE SAY HEY LOOK
WHAT WE DID HERE YOU KNOW WHAT
DO YOU THINK OR OR WE'RE REALLY
STUCK ON THIS ONE.
WE CAN USE SOME HELP HERE OR OR
THIS ONE'S FINAL WE JUST COME
ALONG THAT SORT OF THING.
>> THAT SOUNDS GREAT.
THERE ARE SOME SPECIFIC PROMPTS
AND THERE IS A SPECIFIC SECTION
THAT SAY COMMISSIONERS' IN THIS
SECTION.
THINK ABOUT THIS WHEN YOU'RE
READING IT AND THEN THERE'S THE
TRACK CHANGES.
JUST MAKE SURE THAT YOU'RE
LOOKING AT THE COMMENTS TO OK,
ALL RIGHT.
OK, SO UM SO WE'RE GOING TO GET
ANOTHER VERSION ANOTHER YES.
NEXT YEAH YEAH.
MAYBE TOMORROW PROBABLY NEXT
WEEK AND IF YOU COULD RESPOND
TO THAT AND LET US NOW IF IT
WORKS OR NOT SURE THING.
YEAH YEAH YEAH.
>> THANK YOU.
OK VERY GOOD.
THERE WAS THE NEW BUSINESS SO
NOW WE'LL LOOK AT THE MINUTES
THERE IS MINUTES FROM OUR LAST
MONTH'S MEETING IN SEPTEMBER.
SO ARE THERE ANY CORRECTIONS TO
THE MINUTES.
>> OK, GREAT.
SO C NO CORRECTIONS AND WITHOUT
OBJECTION THE MINUTES ARE
APPROVED AS PRESENTED ONCE
AGAIN THANKS TO BRITNEY
ALEXANDER FROM THE CITY BEHIND
THE SCENES HERE BUT PROVIDING
THE AGENDA AS WELL AS THE
MINUTES FOR THIS EVENING.
SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
OK, WE'RE NOW ON TO REPORTS
FROM COMMISSIONERS.
>> DO WE HAVE ANY REPORTS THIS
MONTH SEEING NONE.
WE WILL MOVE ON TO THE NEXT
ITEM WHICH IS ASSIGNMENTS AND
WE'VE GOT A A TUESDAY IN
NOVEMBER WHICH SOMETHING MUST
BE HAPPENING ON MONDAY VETERANS
DAY.
IT'S VETERAN'S DAY OF COURSE.
ELEVEN ELEVEN.
SO SO YEAH.
IS ANYONE WANT TO RAISE YOUR
HAND FOR A NOON.
THANK YOU STEVE.
THANK YOU.
>> I MIGHT BE NOT ATTENDING THE
NOVEMBER MEETING OK SO I WILL
LET YOU KNOW I I DON'T WANT TO
SIGN UP FOR THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE.
I THINK THERE'S A GOOD CHANCE
THAT I'LL BE MISSING IT BUT I
WILL CONFIRM THAT WITH YOU
FOURTEENTH IS THE MEETING ME OK
THE TWELFTH THE TUESDAY THE
TWELFTH IS THE IS AT NOON OK
THANK YOU STEVE.
SO COMMISSIONER I CAN'T I CAN'T
DO THE REVIEW I CAN YEAH YOU
CAN DO THE MEETING DURING THE
MEETING OK OK SOUNDS LIKE I'M
ASKING CHIP AND BEN.
YES PLEASE.
>> THANK YOU.
OK ARE THERE REPORTS FROM STAFF
THIS MONTH THERE ARE NOT.
CAN I PROMPT A QUESTION TO
STAFF.
I'M WONDERING IF YOU HAVE ANY I
KNOW THAT 415 WEST WASHINGTON
HAS IT BEEN APPROVED FOR
REMOVAL.
>> WHATEVER WAS APPROVED IS
SUPPOSED TO HAPPEN IN OCTOBER I
BELIEVE.
DO YOU HAVE ANY INFORMATION ON
THAT?
OK, VERY GOOD.
JUST THOUGHT I'D MENTION IT AS
IT IS INFORMATION.
YEAH THERE IS A THAT BUILDING
IS APPROVED FOR DEMOLITION AND
SHOULD BE HAPPENING SOON.
I HAVEN'T SEEN ANYTHING MOVING
THAT FORWARD.
>> OK ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS
THIS MONTH.
WELL ACTUALLY I HAD SORRY DO
YOU HAVE A LIVE REPORT OR A
CONCERN.
WHAT DO YOU WHAT DO I QUESTION
THE STAFF JUST BASED ON THE
I'VE GOT THE ADDRESS THE
APPLICATION BUT THE ONE WHERE
THERE'S A NON HISTORIC ADDITION
AND THEY'RE REPLACING HISTORIC
WINDOWS I WAS THINKING ABOUT
MAYBE THAT'S ANOTHER THING THAT
WE CAN THINK ABOUT PUTTING IN A
STACK.
YOU HAVE TO YEAH.
I THINK WE MENTIONED THAT ON
SITE.
THE REASON THAT THAT HAD TO
COME HERE WAS BECAUSE THE THE
OPENINGS WERE BEING ENLARGED,
NOT THE REFLECTION OF THE
WINDOWS.
I COULD HAVE STAFF APPROVED
THAT BUT YES, IF IF GOD HAD TO
IF THAT PROJECT WAS JUST A
SWITCHING OUT THE WINDOWS YOU
WOULD HAVE BEEN ABLE TO STAFF
APPROVE IT.
OK, BUT IF YOU THINK IT'S
APPROPRIATE FOR STAFF TO ALLOW
CHANGES TO WINDOW SIZES ON
NINETEEN 1944 ADDITIONS I BET
WE COULD COME UP WITH A PERSAY
IF IT'S CHANGING BY FIFTY
PERCENT WE COULD PROBABLY COME
UP WITH SOME WORDING WHERE AT
LEAST WITHIN THAT BOUNDARY IS
GOING TO SAY WE'RE NOT FACING
THE STREET BUT TWO OF THESE
WINDOWS TODAY WERE IN ST.
RIGHT.
SO I LIKE THE IDEA LIKE A
PERCENTAGE A CERTAIN PERCENTAGE
JUST SOMETHING TO THINK ABOUT.
>> YEAH I'M SURE I'LL PILE ON
ANOTHER QUESTION FOR STAFF ANY
ANY PROGRESS GETTING ANOTHER
COMMISSIONER SO WE HAVE A FULL
BOAT OF SEVEN HERE.
I I I HAVE PUT IN REMINDERS TO
OTHERS IN CITY HALL THAT THERE
IS A CANDIDATE AND I JUST HEARD
BACK TODAY THEY'RE THERE
PROMPTING THAT THAT PROCESS
MOVE ALONG SO NOTHING HAS
HAPPENED BUT WE MIGHT HAVE A
CANDIDATE STILL OH THAT'S BUT
THAT'S IT OK WHEN I WAS LAST
MONTH OK SARS-COV-2 ANY MORE
NEWS .
YEAH NO IT'S GOOD I MEAN IT'S I
WAS A LITTLE BIT WORRIED THAT
THERE WAS SOME PROBLEM BUT IT
DOESN'T APPEAR THAT THERE'S
SOME GUY THAT JUST WE'RE JUST
MOVING THROUGH THE PROCESS.
>> WELL THANK YOU FOR THAT.
OK WELL I NOW ADJOURN THE
OCTOBER 10TH TWENTY TWENTY FOUR
DC MEETING AT NINE THIRTY NINE
P.M. THANK YOU ALL.
>> THANK YOU